The Abyssinian /æbɪˈsɪniən/ is a breed of cat with a distinctive "ticked" tabby coat, in which individual hairs are banded with different colours.[2] They are also known simply as Abys.[3]
The first members of the breed to be exhibited in England were brought there from Abyssinia (now known as Ethiopia), hence the name. Genetic studies place the breed's origins in Southeast Asia and the coasts of the Indian Ocean, however. It is possible that the breed was introduced to Abyssinia by travelers who had stopped in Calcutta.[4]
Once a comparatively obscure breed, the Abyssinian had become one of the top five most popular cat breeds by 2016.[3]
The breed's distinctive appearance, seeming long, lean and finely coloured compared to other cats, has been analogized to that of human fashion models. Personality-wise, the cats traditionally display active, curious attitudes in which they frequently follow owners around and encourage play.[3] Their dog-like characteristics also involve a particular sense of affection and desire for interaction. Abys have a distinctive wildcat look with their ticked coat and large erect ears. They are a highly social breed and can be demanding of attention. They do well in multi-cat households due to their social nature. Not a lap cat, Abyssinians are in constant motion, either exploring or playing.[5]
What is thought to be the earliest known designated Abyssinian cat is in an exhibit still residing in the Leiden Zoological Museum in The Netherlands. It was purchased around 1834-1836 from a supplier of small wild cat exhibits as a taxidermy and was labeled by the museum founder as "Patrie, domestica India."[6] The first example of a domesticated Abyssinian, however, involves the story of a cat being brought to England by the British Lt. General Sir Robert Napier in 1868 who had returned from the Abyssinia War. The cat was given the name "Zula" and won first prize in the December 1871 Crystal Palace cat show.[6][7]
Many modern Abyssinian breeders dispute Zula as having been the first domestic Abyssinian, arguing that the existing illustrations of Zula portray the cat as having ears too small for an Abyssinian and a coat too waved and long.
The breed was nearly wiped out in the United Kingdom following the Second World War and an outbreak of feline leukaemia virus, resulting in cats being imported from places such as Holland, America, Scandinavia, Australia, and New Zealand.[8]
The Abyssinian is one of the oldest established cat breeds, being recognised in 1929 by the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy. The breed was developed in the United Kingdom with references dating back to the 1890s.[8][9]
The Abyssinian is a lithe, fine-boned, muscular, medium to large sized cat. The average weight is 10 lb (4.5 kg) ranging between 8–12 lb (3.6–5.4 kg) with height ranging between 8–10 in (20–25 cm).[9][10] The head is moderately wedge-shaped, with a slight break at the muzzle, and nose and chin ideally forming a straight vertical line when viewed in profile. They have alert, relatively large pointed ears. The eyes are almond-shaped and are gold, green, hazel or copper depending on coat colour. The legs tend to be long in proportion to a graceful body, with small oval paws; the tail is likewise long and tapering.[11]
The breed's original colour standard is a warm deep reddish-brown base with black ticking, known as "usual" in the United Kingdom, "tawny" in Australia, and "ruddy" elsewhere. Sorrel (also called cinnamon or red), a lighter coppery base with chocolate brown ticking, is a unique mutation of this original pattern. Other variants have been introduced by outcrossing to the Burmese and other shorthaired breeds, notably blue (on a warm beige base) and fawn (on a softer creamy peach base). The less common chocolate and lilac are not recognized in the Cat Fancier's Association (CFA) breed standard[12] but have been granted full champion status in The International Cat Association (TICA)[13] and in the UK. The UK also recognizes the Silver Abyssinian, in which the base coat is a pure silvery white with black (called "usual silver"), blue, cream or sorrel ticking. Various other colour combinations are in development, including the "torbie", in which a patched tortoiseshell pattern in any of these colours is visible under the tabby banding.
The breed owes their distinctive coat to a dominant mutant gene known as Ta. In 2007, the first cat to have its entire genome published was an Abyssinian named Cinnamon.[14]
Veterinarian Joan O. Joshua has written that the "dog-like attachment to the owners" of Abyssinian and Burmese cats causes "greater dependence on human contacts". This stands in contrast to the mere "tolerant acceptance of human company" based around "comforts" that multiple other breeds display.[5]
With their interest in playing with their owners combined with their curious intelligence, Abyssinians are sometimes called the "Clowns of the Cat Kingdom".[3] They have soft chirrup-like vocalizations which do not sound like the expected "meow".[citation needed]
A study comparing Oriental, Siamese and Abyssinian kittens to Norwegian Forest cat kittens found that the former group was more likely to recede and hide as well as display other 'shy' behaviour.[15]
Familial renal amyloidosis or AA amyloidosis, a kidney disorder due to a mutation in the AA amyloid protein gene, has been seen in Abyssinians.[16] The Abyssinian has had severe problems with blindness caused by a hereditary retinal degeneration due to mutations in the rdAc gene. However, the prevalence has been reduced from 45% to less than 4% in 2008 in the country of Sweden.[17] An Australian analysis found the Abyssinian to be over-represented in cases of feline infectious peritonitis when compared to the expected frequency based on census data (4.4% versus 1.5%).[18] An American study had similar results with an odds ratio of 8.98.[19]
In a review of over 5,000 cases of urate urolithiasis the Abyssinian was significantly under-represented, with only one of the recorded cases belonging to an Abyssinian.[20]
The 2008 study "The Ascent of Cat Breeds: Genetic Evaluations of Breeds and Worldwide Random-bred Populations" by Lipinski et al. conducted at UC Davis by the team led by leading feline geneticist Dr Leslie Lyons found that the Abyssinian has a low level of genetic diversity, a heterozygosity value of 0.45 within a range of 0.34–0.69 for all breeds studied, and has genetic markers common to both Southeast Asian and Western breeds indicating that cats from both Asia and Europe were used to create the breed.[21]
The Abyssinian was found to be predisposed to feline atopic dermatitis in a retrospective study of cases of the disease.[22]
The Abyssinian is predisposed to psychogenic alopecia.[23]
An American study found the Abyssinian to be at increased risk of aortic thromboembolism with an odds ratio of 6.03.[19]
A retrospective study in the US found the Abyssinian to be predisposed to acquired myasthaenia gravis with an odds ratio of 4.97.[19]
Mycobacterium avium complex infection is a very rare disease: 10/12 cases were Abyssinians.[19]
A study of cases of patellar luxation in the USA and in Europe found 38% (26/69) Abyssinians had the condition compared to 1/84 for other breeds.[19]
The Abyssinian is the cat breed most commonly affected by progressive retinal atrophy. The condition is caused by two separate mutations in the breed. Early onset PRA is caused by an autosomal dominant mutation in the CRX gene. Late onset PRA is caused by an autosomal recessive mutation in the CEP290 gene.[24]
The Abyssinian is one of the more commonly affected breeds for pyruvate kinase deficiency. An autosomal recessive mutation of the PKLR gene is responsible for the condition in the breed.[24]
--------------------------------------------------
Cat Breeds
With its lean, elegant profile, the Abyssinian cat bears a close resemblance to ancient Egyptian cat statues. Unique ticked coats in a variety of exotic shades combine with large, expressive eyes, lending a sense of mystery to the breed's appearance.
Usually outgoing and active, with a fondness for being the center of attention, the Abyssinian cat develops a close bond with its family. Even so, this breed has a shy side to its personality. Abyssinian cats are often quick to disappear when strangers arrive.
As with all cats, Abyssinians benefit from eating a high-quality food that provides ample protein, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals. While all cats benefit from diets with a high moisture content, Abyssinian cats need more water than average. Feeding a high-quality wet food can help cats take in extra moisture.
The Abyssinian cat has extremely short hair, so you won't have to spend a lot of time grooming your pet. Use a soft brush or grooming glove just once or twice per week to remove loose hair and keep your Aby looking and feeling their best.
Most Abyssinian cats are not fond of being held or restrained, so teach them to accept nail trimming from an early age using gentle, positive methods. Ask your veterinarian for some tips, or have your vet or groomer trim your cat's nails for you.
Abyssinian cats are extremely active by nature and luckily, they’re not prone to obesity. Give them a big cat tower to climb—preferably one that goes all the way to the ceiling—and keep the interactive cat toys coming. An Aby cat will always entertain you with their agile moves while keeping themselves fit. If you've always wanted to play fetch with a cat, it's likely that an Aby will help fulfill that desire.
Abyssinian cats tend to enjoy good physical health, but they are prone to stress and anxiety, particularly in unfamiliar situations.
In addition, Abyssinian some cats suffer from a few known health issues, including a hereditary form of anemia called pyruvate kinase deficiency (PK deficiency), a degenerative eye disease called progressive retinal atrophy (PRA), patellar luxation, and a hereditary kidney disease called renal amyloidosis.
Many Abyssinians have very long life spans. It's not uncommon for Abyssinians to live 14 to 17 years or more, with some Abys living into their 20s.
Abyssinians are one of the oldest cat breeds in existence. The most recent genetic research suggests the breed originated in Southeast Asia, somewhere on the coast of the Indian Ocean. This breed retains many hallmarks of the appearance of felis lybica, a wildcat that contributed its DNA to all domestic cats in existence today.
The modern Abyssinian cat is somewhat different than the original Abyssinian cat. Many of today's Abyssinian lines were created with Russian Blues, Burmese, and Siamese cats as foundation stock.
Abyssinian cats were first recognized by England's Governing Council of the Cat Fancy in 1929. America's first Abyssinian cat litter was born in 1935. The breed is recognized by the Cat Fanciers' Association and The International Cat Association.
Abyssinian cats were first introduced to Europe by way of Ethiopia. Ethiopia was historically known as Abyssinia, and this contributed to the breed's name.
Abyssinians display more curiosity than the average cat. Most cat breeds are very curious as kittens, but Abys retain that sense of curiosity throughout their entire lives. If you live with an Abyssinian cat, keep your pet entertained so they don't form destructive habits.
All cats are intelligent, but Abyssinian cats are off the charts. Highly trainable, eager to please, and athletic, Abys love to learn tricks, particularly when yummy rewards are offered.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Abyssinian, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Abyssinian or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase an Abyssinian, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Abyssinian cats cost between $1,000-$2,000.
Abyssinian cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Abyssinian cat might weigh between 6-12 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8''-10'' inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Abyssinian is 14-17+ years.
Abyssinian are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
I am interested in this breed as I am starting a forest bathing program which will incorporate pets on my woodland hikes. I believe an Aby  would be a great part of my team. What do you think?
Thank you
I think an Abyssinian could be a great addition to your crew!
Thank you. I appreciate all your input to my new endeavor. Forest guide with cat dog , goat tortoise.
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST BREED WHO I HAVE EVER MOTHERED IN OVER 78 YEARS.
I have an abyssinian grey tabby. I’m sure she’s not a purebred, but you never know. I adopted her from the pound. The first thing that caught my attention was her eyes and her light peach color  on her underside and legs. This cat is very human oriented, she’s long, on the lean side, and developed unusual pin striping on her back as she got older. Her coat is silky and has that whitish under her chin and up by her nose. She really is a beautiful cat. She was extremely athletic in her younger years, and she waits for me on the corner of my yard like a watch dog for me to come home in the summer. She loves to burrow in the blankets in the afternoon. She doesn’t shed much,, and since I got her, she now has two other cat buddies. She hangs and follows me all the time.  I would say this is a great cat for 1 person as a companion if you just want one.
We’ve had Abyssinians for years – both pure and half breed. Delightful personality, beautiful  and a joy for the whole family. OUR latest, I saw now eight months old and my only problem is that we are unable to let her run free outside. We will need to build her a good sized outside Catio. She’s such a bright, inquisitive little personality.
Simply the best – but make sure they are well socialised with humans at a young age.
Absolutely THE best breed.  Incredibly INTIELLIGENT, wonderfully LOVING!  SILKY hair, very ATHLETIC.  DEVOTED and LOYAL companions.  Make sure that you have enough time in your day to devote ALL OF YOUR ATTENTION to them and they will THRIVE.  SENSITIVE  and AWARE of your moods, health, and needs.  My two brothers have had different lifespans:  Cinnamon died ataround 9 years of age, but Curry is now 18, almost 19 and he still thinks that he is a KITTEN!
this car is I mean cat a ca not car hah typo 🙂
--------------------------------------------------
The Abyssinian cat, also called the “Aby” by affectionate admirers, is a truly remarkable breed known for their striking appearance, lively personality, and fascinating history. This slender, elegant cat with its ticked coat and engaging disposition has enchanted cat enthusiasts for generations.
The Abyssinian cat combines an alluring appearance with a lively and endearing personality. Despite their newfound popularity, their history remains shrouded in mystery. Whether you’re drawn to their ticked coat or their playful and engaging demeanor, Abyssinian cats are sure to capture your heart and bring joy and companionship into your life.
When considering an Abyssinian, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase an Abyssinian kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Additionally, it’s important to conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Abyssinian breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Showing cats was all the rage in the late Victorian era. One of the unusual breeds exhibited at the Crystal Palace Cat Show in 1871 was an Abyssinian — “captured in the late Abyssinian War” — who took third place. The report on the cat show, published in the January 27, 1872, issue of Harper’s Weekly, was the first known mention in print of the breed. Unfortunately, no records exist regarding the cats’ origins, although myths and speculation abound, including claims that it was the cat of the pharaohs, and that it was created in Britain by crossing silver and brown tabbies with cats that had “ticked” coats.
Today, genetic evidence suggests that the cats came from Indian Ocean coastal regions and parts of Southeast Asia. British and Dutch traders may well have brought the cats from ports such as Calcutta, India, or the islands of Indonesia. A taxidermied specimen of a ruddy ticked cat exhibited in the 1830s at the Leiden Zoological Museum in The Netherlands, where he was labeled “Patrie, domestica India,” gives creedence to that theory.
The cats were probably given the name Abyssinian because Zula, the cat exhibited at the Crystal Palace, was said to have been imported from Abyssinia (now Ethiopia). Early pedigrees show crosses to non-Abyssinian cats, which may explain the introduction of new coat colors and the gene for long hair. American cat fanciers first imported some Abyssinians in 1900, but Abyssinian breeding programs didn’t get a real start in the United States until the 1930s, when more of the cats were imported from Britain.
It’s a good thing that a number of cats were exported to the U.S. because World War II devastated the breed. Only a dozen of the cats had survived in England by the end of the war. The breed bounced back, however, and has become one of the most popular cat breeds.
This is a medium-size cat weighing 6 to 10 pounds.
Of all the cat breeds, the Abyssinian is perhaps the one who lives life to the fullest. He climbs higher, jumps farther, plays harder. Nothing escapes the notice of this highly intelligent and inquisitive cat, a quality that makes life with him both endlessly entertaining and continuously challenging.
Staying a step ahead of an Aby, as the breed is nicknamed, or even just keeping pace with him, requires the fancy footwork of a Fred Astaire, the brainpower of an Einstein and a sense of humor that never stops. You never know what he’ll get into next, although you can assume that if you have something or are doing something, your Aby will want to investigate it closely.
Some people refer to the cats as “Aby-grabbys” because of their propensity for taking things that catch their interest. Sometimes it may seem as if the Aby never sleeps. He is ever in motion, jumping up in the window to look at birds or squirrels, leaping on top of the refrigerator to supervise meal preparation, perching on your desk to watch your fingers move over the keyboard and then swiping at them so you’ll pay attention to him instead. This is a playful, persistent cat who adores being the center of attention and will do anything to achieve and maintain that status.
The Aby loves to play, so plan on making or purchasing a variety of toys to keep him occupied. Ping-Pong balls, bottle caps, wadded-up pieces of paper, puzzle toys and teasers such as big peacock feathers will all amuse this busy and brainy cat. Teach him to retrieve at your peril. Once you start, he won’t let you stop. He learns tricks quickly and many Abys enjoy running a feline agility course.
A love of heights is a signal trait of the Abyssinian. He likes to be as high up as possible and will appreciate having one or more ceiling-height cat trees. When those aren’t available, he is perfectly capable of making his way to the uppermost point of any room. Fortunately, he is naturally graceful and rarely breaks items unless it is simply out of curiosity.
Abys are adaptable throughout their lives and fit well into any home where they are loved and given plenty of attention. In a home where people are at work or school during the day, the Aby does best with a companion, ideally another Aby, who can match his activity level. If left to his own devices, the Aby may well dismantle the house in his search for something interesting to do. Beware! The Aby can be addictive. Once you’ve had one, you may find that no other cat will do.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Problems that may affect the Abyssinian include the following:

The short, fine coat of the Abyssinian is easily cared for with weekly combing to remove dead hair and distribute skin oils. A bath when the cat is shedding will help to remove excess hair more quickly. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene, and a dirty box may cause them to start using other places in the house instead. It’s a good idea to keep an Abyssinian as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Abyssinians who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Aby is often said to look as if he had just walked straight out of the wild. That’s because of his ticked coat pattern, which resembles that of wild cats such as cougars. A ticked coat has alternating light and dark bands of color on each hair shaft. Everything about him suggests his lively, attentive nature. The Aby has a slightly rounded wedge-shaped head topped with large, broad ears, the better to hear you with. Large, almond-shaped eyes of gold or green express interest in everything they see.
On the face, dark lines may extend from the eyes and brows. The muscular body is graceful and athletic. It falls into a middle ground between the stocky, or cobby, body of a breed such as the Persian and the long, svelte body of the Oriental breeds such as the Siamese. The body is supported by slim, fine-boned legs atop small, oval, compact paws. Abys are often said to look as if they are walking on tip-toe. Swishing behind them is a long, tapering tail. Its bands of color give the Aby’s coat a warm, glowing appearance.
The active and social Abyssinian is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He will play fetch as well as any retriever, learns tricks easily and loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect. He’s smart enough to get out of the way of toddlers but loves school-age children because they are a match for his energy level and curiosity.
Nothing scares him, certainly not dogs, and he will happily make friends with them if they don’t give him any trouble. Abys have also been known to get along with large parrots, ferrets and other animals. Always introduce any pets, even other cats, slowly and in a controlled setting.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your cat's connection to this breed and 20 others
Abyssinians have a striking coat with a ticked pattern that shows off their slim, yet athletic build. Known as one of the oldest breeds of domesticated cats, these graceful beauties have a curious and playful nature and love to climb to the highest of heights.
The "miniature cougar" of the cat world, the Abyssinian is a gorgeous and energetic breed that is said to resemble the wild cats found all over North America. The Abyssinian always has a ticked coat pattern that ranges in color from ruby reds to fawn tones and silvery blues. These cats have expressive almond-shaped eyes, large ears, and a long, lean body.
The Abyssinian is said to be one of the oldest cat breeds. Recent genetics research oﬀers insight into the possible origin of this breed, tracing it to the coast of the Indian Ocean and areas of Southeast Asia. Based on the genetic markers found in the Abyssinian, it is presumed that cats from both Asia and Europe were used to create the breed we know and love today.
Notorious for their intelligence and agility, the Abyssinian is one of the most outgoing and athletic of breeds. These cats are excellent climbers, hunters, and jumpers. They thrive in environments where they can explore, climb high spaces, or simply enjoy good mischievous play with their humans and fellow cat friends. Though they aren’t known as lap cats or big cuddlers, they love spending time with their human family and have been known to suffer from depression without regular attention and aﬀection.
Some published studies reveal the Abyssinian, among several other breeds, to be at a higher risk for diabetes mellitus. Two mutations related to progressive retinal atrophy (PRA) have also been identiﬁed in Abyssinian, Somali, and Ocicat breeds. Other health problems associated with the Abyssinian include gingivitis (an early stage of periodontal disease), hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy, pyruvate kinase deﬁciency, psychogenic alopecia (stress-related hair loss), and patellar luxation (trick knee).
They are one of the earliest cat stars. In 1871, an Abyssinian made an appearance in the world's second major cat show, held at London's Crystal Palace, winning third place. They were mentioned in one of the first English cat breed catalogs titled, "Cats, Their Points and Characteristics" by W. Gordon Stables. In 1978, an Abyssinian named Jake starred in Walt Disney's film "The Cat From Outer Space".
The first cat DNA to be decoded. In 2007, the feline genome was finally sequenced. The star of this groundbreaking scientific effort was an Abyssinian cat named Cinnamon. This was a revolutionary discovery in feline genetics.
They contributed to Australia's first pedigreed cat. Dr. Truda Straede crossed an Abyssinian, a Burmese, and an Australian domestic shorthair cat in the 1970s. She wanted to create a cat with all her favorite feline attributes, resulting in the beautiful “Australian Mist” cat.
They are rated as the smartest cat breed. According to an intriguing list of the top 10 smartest cat breeds created by CatTime, Abyssinians rank the highest.
The International Cat Association (TICA) “Introduction to the Abyssinian”
Cat Fanciers' Association "About the Abyssinian"
FETCH by WebMD "What to Know About an Abyssinian Cat"
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Known also as the Bunny Cat or the Abys, the Abyssinian cat hails from Abyssinia which is today known as Ethiopia.
It is believed that the cat was brought to the UK in the 1860s. At first the cat was crossed with British Shorthairs, and later with oriental breeds.
The cat was imported in 1900 to America with some breeding programs starting in the United States in the 1930s. It is thought that it was a good thing that cats were exported to the U.S. because World War II took a toll on breed numbers but the breed was built up again in the USA.
The Abyssinian is a slender, lithe, fine-boned, medium sized cat with shortish to medium length silky hair and long, slender legs.
The fur has a distinctive ticked look.  The coat comes in several colors – but its base color is a glossy reddish-brown base with black ticking.
You’ll find that the feline reaches a height of 20-25 cm and that its length is roughly 30-41 cm. When your Abyssinian is an adult it will weigh about 4-5 kg. With good care, your feline pet can reach up to 13 years of age.
The kittens are born with dark coats, but as they mature, the coat lightens. The head of the cat is somewhat wedge-shaped and it has fairly large ears with big almond-shaped eyes. The eyes can be green or hazel, depending on the coat shade. The tail is long and tapering.
The Abyssinian loves leaping onto cupboard tops or anything that has some height. It's an intelligent cat this Aby and always on the go. He is a playful cat and just loves being the center of attention, and when he has lots of toys he is always occupied, entertaining you with his antics.
If you were to be away at work every day, it would be a good idea to have a friend for him because he’s the kind of cat that becomes bored and lonely and then he becomes naughty. This cat is known as a clown with its outgoing, mischievous nature.
Your active Abyssinian cat is such a pleasure to have in the home as these cats love their human family as well as other pets in the home.
He’ll talk to you in a quiet way. They’re playful cats and you want to make sure you supply him with some stimulating toys.
Remember to brush his coat gently and make it a special therapeutic, bonding time. Make sure your active cat has exercise and provide some climbing equipment for him. Most of all he just wants to be around you and to get your loving attention.
The Abyssinian has been known to be prone to kidney disorders. It can also be prone to gingivitis which can lead to periodontal disease.
Also, the Abyssinian has been known to have problems with blindness. An eye problem, called progressive retinal atrophy is where the cells deteriorate over time and this is what causes the blindness.
The Abyssinian can also be prone to patellar luxation where the kneecap can become dislocated.
The Abyssinian cat’s short, fine coat is easy to care for. Brush and comb it timeously to remove loose hairs.
Because of periodontal disease, brush your cat's teeth. If you feel you don’t know how to perform any of these ‘caring’ routines for your kitty kat, don’t despair as your vet can do a dental cleaning procedure as well as your pet groomers.
Your Abyssinian cat is carnivorous and will need food similar to that which they would prey on in the wild. Your cat will require foods high in protein and with added vitamins and minerals.
Avoid cat foods that add in useless fillers such as wheat and soy. It is important that you buy the right cat food for your Abyssinian, and if you’re in any doubt, speak to your vet. Make sure your cat always has access to a bowl of fresh, cool water.
Always keep your Abyssinian’s litter box spotlessly clean. You can keep a special little plastic rake to rake up the sand and rid the box of cat droppings immediately.
--------------------------------------------------
