LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Planning on getting an Affenpinscher and would like to know if Affenpinschers are safe with cats?
Find out all about Affenpinscher cat friendliness and how to make your Affenpinscher friendlier with kittens on this website.



A common error a lot of people make is believing that all dogs hate felines and vice versa. This isn’t true and there are a lot of pet breeds that are great with cats. Pet dogs that aren’t naturally cat friendly can likewise be trained to be more safe around cats.
From the opinion of experienced Affenpinscher dog experts, Affenpinscher dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of dog breeds that are cat friendly.



Despite the misconception, a great deal of pet dogs and cats can live together comfortably. Follow these easy to follow steps to understand how to best introduce your Affenpinscher with a cat.


Not all Affenpinschers detest felines, some get along with them. When Affenpinschers do hate felines, of the most common reason is quite simple. Like all dogs, Affenpinschers still keep some of the hunting behavioral instincts that they were originally bred for. This is why Affenpinschers love chasing after all moving objects, whether it’s a toy, mouse, or a cat.
Given that most felines will run away when they encounter, it’s easy to see why they are understood for not getting along with each other. Affenpinschers in fact enjoy chasing felines not because they hate them, however primarily because a fast running animal activates a strong, natural reaction to chase overcomes any training or socialisation.


Training your Affenpinscher to quit going after cats takes time, training and consistency, but the benefit of not having to worry about them always chasing after is well worth it. Here are the points of how to stop your Affenpinscher from chasing felines.


The best approach to guarantee your Affenpinscher would never ever kill a cat is to raise them with felines when they’re a young puppy before 3 months old. At this age, they will generally wish to have fun with the cats and won’t see them as prey.
If your Affenpinscher has actually eliminated a cat before, its best if you keep them in an open, enclosed area. When taking them for strolls try to avoid going after sunset and before dawn since that’s when cats are most active and likely to be wandering the neighborhoods.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Didkovska Ilona, Shutterstock
Last Updated on March 7, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Although originally bred to hunt and kill rats, a reduction in the breed’s size as a result of intentional breeding saw the Affenpinscher become a companion dog rather than a working dog. Today, the breed is a loving companion that gets along best with adults but despite being loyal dogs, they don’t usually want to be held on your lap for too long, and they don’t appreciate play that is too rough.
They are intelligent but can be quite stubborn, so can pose a bit of a training challenge. But they only have moderate exercise requirements and are a good choice for owners who want a loving dog that doesn’t need to be handled and loved constantly.
Height:
9–12 inches
Weight:
7–10 pounds
Lifespan:
12–14 years
Colors:
Black, silver, gray, red, beige, tan
Suitable for:
Adults looking for a loyal but not overly demanding dog
Temperament:
Loyal, intelligent, somewhat stubborn, not overly clingy
Independent is perhaps the best word to describe the Affenpinscher. While it is loyal to its family, it has a mind of its own and can come across as being a little stubborn, which means it can be a challenge for first-time owners to train. It also doesn’t appreciate rough handling, which negates rough play and means that children need to be respectful of the breed.
With moderate exercise requirements and being generally hardy and resilient, the Affenpinscher is a good choice of pet for owners who don’t want to have to attend to their dog’s emotional needs 24 hours a day.

Affenpinschers are a somewhat uncommon breed, although breeders can be found if you’re willing to put in the work to search. Always do your due diligence when choosing a breeder. Ensure they have their dogs screened for common problems and that they have good accommodation where the puppies and parents can live before they are bought.
The puppies themselves are small and they are proud, as most pedigree dogs are. They enjoy playing, but they can be quite sensitive and don’t take well to rough or aggressive play. Because of this, they don’t always get along well with children, although this will depend on the individual’s experience with young people. Start socializing and training early to ensure your Affenpinscher will get along with people young and old, and that it will be accommodating of strangers. Socialization is also important to ensure that the Affenpinscher doesn’t give chase to any animal or moving object it sees.
Although the Affenpinscher is a purebred, you might find one in a rescue or shelter. Dogs are often abandoned because of a change in the owners’ circumstances or, as is possible in the case of the Affenpinscher, because the dog didn’t get along with children in the house. Speak to the shelter and ask for any history they have, although it is unlikely that you will be able to get a full history. The rescue should have a good understanding of the dog’s character and temperament, however, and whether it gets along well with other animals.
Although the Affenpinscher was originally bred as a ratter, selective and intentional breeding saw a reduction in the size of the breed and it became a popular companion dog, rather than a working dog. Today’s Affenpinscher is a loyal and affectionate dog, although it won’t necessarily want to spend long hours curled up on your lap, preferring to show its affection in other ways.
The breed does have moderate exercise requirements and a playful nature, but it doesn’t appreciate rough play. It will enjoy chasing a ball and can do well in some agility events, but is less likely to enjoy tug or fighting games.
The breed is not known to be overly vocal which, when combined with its size and moderate exercise requirements, makes it a good choice for apartment dwellers. It won’t disturb the neighbors and should get enough exercise from daily walks and indoor play sessions.
Affenpinschers are loving dogs, but they don’t appreciate rough treatment, even during play. Children will need to be respectful of the dog to enjoy a good relationship with it.
Although the Affenpinscher is unlikely to get aggressive, it might nip if pushed and pulled around too much, and if it is being treated roughly, it can lead to stress and anxiety for the dog while also making it difficult for the dog and owners to form a close bond. Otherwise, the breed will get along with older children who know how to play respectfully, and it will form a close bond with adult owners.
The Affenpinscher will typically get along with other dogs, and even cats, in the household. However, the same rules apply to pets as they do to children. If another dog acts aggressively and roughly, the Affenpinscher might respond with growling or even snapping. As is the case when introducing any new dog to a household of existing pets, make introductions gradually and carefully. It takes time, but it sets everybody up for a better home life with fewer arguments and fights.
The Affenpinscher is a toy breed, and it suffers from the same small dog syndrome as other toy breeds. It won’t back down from taking on much bigger dogs if it feels threatened or defensive, so you will need to take care when walking or if you have a bigger dog at home that can get bossy.
Although it is believed that the Affenpinscher was first bred in the 17th Century, reliable records only really exist from the 19th Century. It is known that the Affenpinscher, which means “Monkey Dog” in German, was originally bred as a ratter before it was bred down in size and became a companion breed. Today, it is considered a toy companion dog and has the attitude and affection to match.
Breed standards were first developed for this German dog at the beginning of the 20th century and were formalized in 1913. These standards were adopted by the American Kennel Club in 1936. As was true of many German breeds, World War II saw a decline in the popularity of the breed, but this soon revived in the 1950s. Despite this slight resurgence, the Affenpinscher remains a rare breed today, which means prospective owners will have to put in some leg work to find a breeder.
Although it is considered intelligent, the Affenpinscher also has a reputation for being stubborn, which can make it a bit of a challenge to train. However, this independence is appealing to some potential owners. It means that you won’t have to spend every hour of the day with your Affen. In fact, this isn’t a companion breed that relishes being on your lap all the time.
If you are considering buying or adopting one of this breed, you will need to consider the information below.
This is a small dog, typically only weighing up to around 10 pounds. This means that it has fairly minimal dietary requirements. Expect to feed a cup of good-quality kibble every day. If you choose to feed wet food, follow the feeding guidelines on the packet. And, if a vet has recommended that you increase or decrease feeding amounts, follow these guidelines.
You can give treats, or use them to aid in your training efforts, but you must figure these into daily feeding calculations. No more than 10% of your dog’s daily calorie intake should come from treats, and you should adjust the amount of food you give according to the calories that are given as treats. If your dog is food-oriented and likes its biscuits, you can use dry kibble as low-value treats and intersperse these with high-value treats for especially tricky training techniques.
Always allow your dog to have free access to fresh drinking water, throughout the day and night.
The Affenpinscher is a lively little pup and while it doesn’t have excessive exercise requirements, it does need regular walks, of at least 30–45 minutes per day. Many Affenpinschers enjoy longer walks and you can take yours on hikes and partake in other activities. The smaller size of the breed means even if your dog gets tired while out on a long hike, you can pick it up and carry it back to the car.
Although its size tends to exclude the Affenpinscher from strength-based activities, it can do very well in agility and even agility-based events like flyball and agility classes are a good way to socialize and train your pup.
Socializing and training are important stages in your dog’s development. The Affenpinscher is considered a stubborn breed, which means training can be a little more challenging than with a breed like the Border Collie, but the Affenpinscher is intelligent enough to learn, as long as you can make training sessions fun and keep them short.
Training will generally start with house training, which can be a challenge with any toy breed. Establish a feeding routine early, and use this to predict when your little Affenpinscher is likely going to need to go to the toilet. Be vigilant and if you see them building up to wee or poop, take them outside, watch, and wait without interrupting. Offer lots of praise and a reward when they do their business.
Accidents will happen. Don’t admonish your dog for going indoors, but do clean up the mess quickly. Be consistent with taking them out and offering praise and rewards and it will come eventually.
Socialization is also important for young dogs. It means introducing your dog to new people, other animals, and to unusual situations. It will ensure that your Affenpinscher is confident no matter what incidents occur and who they meet.
Puppy classes are a good way to combine training and socialization. You meet other puppy owners, and their puppies, in a controlled environment, and you will also learn the basics of training so that you can train your dog in the future.
The coat of the Affenpinscher is rough and somewhat harsh. The medium-length coat tends to be shaggier around the head. The breed doesn’t shed much but it does require regular stripping. This can be done by hand or using a stripping tool, and it removes dead hairs that can become uncomfortable and cause matting. Weekly brushing will also be necessary to keep the dog looking neat and tidy.
Other grooming requirements include nail clipping and tooth brushing. Nails will need to be trimmed every couple of months and if you aren’t comfortable doing this yourself, you can have a professional groomer do it for you. Teeth should be brushed at least three times a week, to help avoid plaque and tartar building up and prevent tooth decay.
Although generally a healthy dog, the Affenpinscher is prone to certain conditions and illnesses, many of which are common among toy and small breeds. Some of the most common include patellar luxation which occurs when the bones of the patella do not line up properly and, in turn, can lead to arthritis.
Legg-Perthes Disease is another condition common to small breeds and is a deformity of the hip joint. Other forms of hip dysplasia may also present, while heart murmurs can be a sign of heart-related problems that will need to be monitored.
Male Affenpinschers are taller and a little heavier than females. The male is more likely to take on other dogs but will enjoy playing more than the female, who can be moody. However, the temperament of a dog is more greatly affected by the individual character and the dog’s history than by its sex.
The Affenpinscher is a German breed that originated in the 17th Century. Its name means “Monkey Terrier” in German, given to it because of its protruding bottom jaw and lip as well as its monkey-like facial appearance.
Bred originally as a ratter, it’s hardly surprising that the Affenpinscher is a brave dog. And, since it has been bred down in size, it has also developed the small dog syndrome that a lot of toy breeds exhibit. This means that your Affenpinscher will not be afraid to go up against other dogs, even much larger breeds. Ensure good socialization from a young age to help counteract this, to some degree.
Although the breed is considered quiet, it will bark if it senses any kind of threat, and it is an alert terrier breed. As such, the Affenpinscher can make a very good watchdog. It will keep an eye on the house and let you know of any possible threats.
The Affenpinscher is a rare breed that was first bred in Germany in the 17th century. While it was first raised as a ratter, it was bred down in size and became popular as a companion dog. Having suffered a dip in popularity after World War II, the Affenpinscher did regain some followers in the 1950s, but it is still an unusual breed that can be difficult to find.
It has moderate exercise requirements and is generally classified as being a hypoallergenic breed because it sheds less than other breeds. That coat does require some regular maintenance, however, to prevent it from getting matted and causing discomfort for your little Pinscher. You will need to take care if keeping an Affenpinscher with small children because it doesn’t tolerate rough handling well, and you should expect your Affenpinscher to be willing to take on much bigger dogs.
Featured Image Credit: Didkovska Ilona, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Matt is a freelance writer from the UK. He lives with his partner and daughter, as well as two cats and one dog.
A data analyst by profession, Matt moved from numbers to words more than 15 years ago and has been writing ever since. Having volunteered at a local animal sanctuary, he has a lot of experience with dogs, cats, and horses. Matt has also kept bearded dragons, a variety of birds, fish, guinea pigs, hamsters, mice, and rats. His daughter has adopted the same passion for animals, keeping and breeding snakes.
A geek at heart, Matt is a member of a local board gaming group and regularly forces his family to “enjoy” board games with him at home.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Affenpinscher is a small toy breed that originated in Germany, dating back to the 17th century. They were originally bred to be rat catchers in homes and stables, making them skilled hunters. The name "Affenpinscher" translates to "monkey-like terrier" in German, referring to their distinctive facial features resembling that of a monkey.
Affenpinschers may suffer from eye conditions including cataracts, distichiasis, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, corneal dystrophy, persistent pupillary membranes, progressive retinal atrophy, and retinal dysplasia. They may also be affected by the skin conditions atopic dermatitis and recurrent flank alopecia. Other conditions for which they can be at risk for include cryptorchidism, dermoid cysts, elongated soft palate, cleft lip/palate, hypothyroidism, Legg–Calve–Perthes disease, oligodontia, open fontanel, patent ductus arteriosus, polydontia (retained primary teeth), and tracheal collapse. Like many other breeds they can also be prone to hip and elbow dysplasia and patellar luxation.
Affenpinschers are known for their lively, adventurous, and willful temperament. They are typically alert, loyal, and curious, making them excellent watchdogs despite their small size. They often get along well with other dogs, especially when socialized from a young age. However, they tend to not do well with smaller rodent pets such as hamsters or ferrets, due to their history as ratters. With their high levels of intelligence and energy, Affenpinschers need regular mental and physical stimulation to prevent boredom and associated behavior issues. They are known for their love of play and their loyal nature, often forming strong bonds with their human companions. While they can be somewhat reserved with strangers, they are generally sociable and can get along with children. However, due to their tendency to be assertive in nature, supervision is recommended when they are interacting with very young children.
According to the AKC, the writer Desmond Morris shared a story about an Affenpinscher he saw during a trip he took to Alaska. Apparently, this dog displayed its "ratter" qualities of fearlessness and confidence when it chased off a large Grizzly Bear.Affenpinschers were popular among the European nobility in the 17th and 18th centuries and were often used as lapdogs by women of the court.The breed became almost extinct during World War II, but dedicated breeders managed to revive the population after the war.Affenpinschers have a distinctive expression with a prominent jaw and bushy eyebrows, giving them a comical, monkey-like appearance.Due to their small size and sturdy build, they are sometimes referred to as the "mustachioed little devil" or "little black devil."
DOI: 10.1002/9781119540687 https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5827.1997.tb03487.xPalika, L. (2008). The Howell Book of Dogs: The Definitive Reference to 300 Breeds and Varieties. Wiley Publishing Inc.Fogle, B. (2009). The Encyclopedia of the Dog. DK Publishing.American Kennel Club. (2021). Affenpinscher Dog Breed Information. https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/affenpinscher/
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Collection of all the general dog breed info about Affenpinscher so you can get to know the breed more.
Due to its popularity, inbreeding may occur. A new study shows that inbreeding contributes to the incidence of disease and health problems.
The Affenpinscher is among the smartest dogs in the intelligence ranking.
Some dogs handle moderate punishment very well, while others crumble apart at a dirty look. This breed is not affected emotionally by moderate punishment.
Top reasons for barking: protection, alarm, fear, boredom, attention-seeking, greeting, separation anxiety, compulsive barking.
Low  🔽
Between 100 and 200 PSI  🔽
Affenpinscher bite wounds might not be as severe, but it is still essential to be cautious and prevent any biting incidents.
They are usually not aggressive and very friendly towards children and other animals. To ensure a well-behaved dog, it's essential to learn how to train an Affenpinscher puppy not to bite from an early age. With proper training and socialization, an Affenpinscher can be a wonderful addition to any family, providing love and companionship for years to come.
Do Affenpinscher dogs need a lot of exercises?
If you notice any weight gain, consult your veterinarian and make a diet plan. Reduce unhealthy food and snacks, and measure the Affenpinscher weight regularly.
Cutting the dog's hair by a professional groomer is essential. Everyday brushing of the dog's coat is necessary to reduce shedding.
Ears and eyes should be cleaned regularly to avoid infections. Don't skip the seasonal flea treatment too. Dog nail trimming and dog bath should be on a weekly schedule.
Taking good care of your Affenpinscher is time-consuming and requires excellent grooming skills. If you don't have the time and skill search for the best dog groomer or clipping service in your area and book an appointment.
If you notice any change in your dog's drooling habit, you should contact a vet as soon as possible.
Medium  ⏺
For example, short-haired dog breeds can go a very long time in between baths. These short-haired breeds shed regularly and that shedding works to naturally remove excess dirt and oil. So unless your weenie dog got into the garbage can, you can probably hold off on a bath for a while.
Not really This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for service purposes.
This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for service purposes.
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for service purposes.
Not really This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Not really They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for detection purposes.
They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Not really This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Affenpinscher is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Affenpinscher is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
The Affenpinscher is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
Not really Affenpinscher breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Affenpinscher breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Not really A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Affenpinscher is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Not really In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
60-64 days
During this time the females start to attract males. You can notice by swelling vulva and bloody discharge.
The second part is the Estrus when the female is receptive for the male. It lasts for about 3 to 11 days.
The sign of the proestrus part is the soft and enlarged vulva. The discharge decreases and lightens in color.
The third part is the Diestrus. Normally, it occurs around day 14. In this period the female’s discharge changes for vivid red and coming to its end. The vulva returns to average, and she will no longer permit mating.
The fourth part called the Anestrus. The time frame between heat periods normally lasts about six months.
Once a year.
Affenpinscher was breed in Germany, wherein the 1600s the intervene of the rodent population was used in pantries, grains, markets, and barns. Over time, they grew to their size and greeted them as their counterparts while keeping rodents and vermins still. Affenpinscher's origin is not completely documented. Many fanciers think that the German Pinscher was paired with Asian types to create flat-faced Affie. Although however of its descent, Affenpinscher has contributed to countless different tiny European varieties, including the Miniature Schnauzer furthermore the Brussels Griffon. Affens nearly disappeared under the Second World War. At the end of the war, experts crossed the Griffon Bruxellois with the overliving German livestock, which exaggerated the unique appearance that now ranks the breed.
In Cologne, the first Affen Club was founded in 1895. The German Bayerischer Schnauzer Club was established in 1907. The two clubs were united in 1923 and converted into a Pinscher-Schnauzer Club. In a short time, many breeders joined the Schnauzer-Pinscher Club. The Affen was registered in the American Kennel Club (AKC) in 1936. The dog breed is not the most popular for registered. Until the fifties, few people were interested in the breed. Nowadays it is still rare, although in 2002 it became more popular in the media when Ch Yarrow Super Nova won the Toy Group in 2002 at the Westminster Kennel Club Show.
Mar 9, 2023, 7:07:57 AM:
Saving the dog breed
Feb 19, 2023, 9:53:17 PM:

Feb 19, 2023, 9:52:47 PM:

Jul 10, 2018, 5:52:57 PM:
Suppper! :)
--------------------------------------------------
Nov 01, 2024
The Affenpinscher, often affectionately called the "Monkey Dog," is a small but sturdy toy breed known for its distinctive appearance, lively personality, and terrier-like behavior. Despite its tiny size, the Affenpinscher is brave, confident, and full of energy. Here's a comprehensive introduction to this charming breed:

History and Origin


		The Affenpinscher originated in Germany, with records dating back to the 1600s. It was originally bred to be a ratter, helping to control rodent populations in homes and stables.

		The breed's name comes from the German word "Affen," meaning "monkey," and "Pinscher," meaning "terrier." This reflects its unique monkey-like expression and its working dog roots.

		Over time, the Affenpinscher became more of a companion dog, especially among European nobility.


Physical Characteristics


Size:Affenpinschers are small, typically weighing 6-13 pounds (2.7-6 kg) and standing about 9-12 inches (23-30 cm) at the shoulder.

Coat:They have a wiry, rough coat that gives them a shaggy appearance. The coat is dense and harsh to the touch, helping protect them from the elements.

Color:Common colors include black, gray, silver, black and tan, and sometimes red or beige.

Face:The breed is known for its distinct, often comical facial expression, featuring a short, flat muzzle, round eyes, and bushy eyebrows, which enhance its "monkey-like" look.


Temperament and Personality


Personality:Affenpinschers are known for their curious, lively, and sometimes mischievous personalities. They are confident, feisty, and bold despite their small size, often showing terrier-like behaviors.

Loyal and Affectionate:They tend to bond closely with their families and are very loyal, making them great companion dogs.

Playful but Stubborn:While they love to play, Affenpinschers can be a bit stubborn and independent. They have a strong will, which sometimes makes training challenging.


	  Fearless and Bold: Despite their small size, Affenpinschers are known for their courage and confidence. They often display a fearless attitude, especially when protecting their home or family.

	  Loyal and Affectionate: Affenpinschers form strong bonds with their owners and are known for their affectionate and loyal nature. They often enjoy sitting on their owner’s lap or following them around the house.

	  Playful and Curious: They are curious and playful, with an almost comical sense of humor. Their mischievous nature can keep their families entertained, and they are always up for fun and games.

	  Independent but Attentive: Affenpinschers have an independent streak, but they are also alert and will often follow their owners around to stay involved in whatever is happening.


		  Territorial: Like many terrier-like breeds, Affenpinschers can be territorial and sometimes possessive, especially when it comes to their toys or food.

Alert:They are good watchdogs, being alert and quick to sound the alarm if something seems off.


Trainability and Activity


Training:Affenpinschers are intelligent, but they can be a bit hard-headed. Consistent and positive reinforcement training is key. Early socialization is important to help them develop well-rounded behaviors.

Exercise:They have moderate energy levels and enjoy daily walks and playtime. Despite their small size, they are active and benefit from regular exercise and mental stimulation to prevent boredom.


	  Intelligence: Affenpinschers are quite intelligent, but they also have a stubborn and independent nature, which can make training a bit of a challenge.

	  Patience Required: Training an Affenpinscher requires patience, consistency, and a positive reinforcement approach. Harsh methods are not effective with this breed due to their sensitive and spirited nature.


		  Watchdog Skills: Affenpinschers are natural watchdogs and will alert their owners to any unusual sounds or activities. However, they can be prone to excessive barking, which may require early training to manage.


Health and Lifespan


Lifespan:Affenpinschers generally live between 12-14 years, but with good care, some can live even longer.

Health Issues:Like all breeds, Affenpinschers can be prone to certain health conditions. Some of the common health concerns include:
		

Patellar Luxation:A condition where the kneecap can dislocate or shift out of place.

Hip Dysplasia:Though rare in such a small breed, it's still a concern in some Affenpinschers.

Eye Problems:They can be prone to cataracts or other eye conditions due to their large, prominent eyes.

Respiratory Issues:Their short snout can sometimes lead to breathing difficulties, especially in hot or humid environments.




Exercise and Activity Levels


Moderate Exercise Needs:Affenpinschers are small but energetic dogs. They enjoy daily walks and playtime but do not require intense exercise. Short walks and some time to explore in a fenced yard or safe environment will keep them happy and healthy.

Indoor Play:Due to their small size, Affenpinschers are well-suited to apartment living and can get much of their exercise through indoor play. Interactive toys and games will help stimulate their active minds.


	 

Grooming


Coat Care:The Affenpinscher's wiry coat requires regular grooming to prevent matting. They should be brushed several times a week and occasionally stripped to remove dead hair. Professional grooming may be necessary to maintain their distinctive look.

Bathing:Bathe as needed, but not too frequently, to avoid stripping the natural oils from their coat.

Dental Care:Like many small breeds, Affenpinschers are prone to dental issues, so regular brushing of their teeth is important.


	  Trimming: Regular trimming or hand-stripping is necessary to maintain their distinctive look. Many owners take their Affenpinschers to professional groomers every few months for a tidy-up.


		  Face Cleaning: Special attention should be given to keeping their facial area clean, as their expressive eyes and short muzzle can collect dirt and debris.


Living Conditions


Apartment-Friendly:Affenpinschers are well-suited to apartment living due to their small size. They don’t require a large yard, but they do need regular exercise and playtime to stay healthy and happy.

Companionship:They thrive on human companionship and should not be left alone for extended periods. If left alone too often, they may develop separation anxiety or engage in destructive behaviors.

Best Environment:They do well in homes where they can be part of family life, as they thrive on attention and companionship. However, due to their terrier-like tendencies, they may need supervision when interacting with very young children.


Good With Families and Pets?


Children:Affenpinschers generally do well with older children who know how to handle small dogs gently. However, they may not tolerate rough handling from very young children.

Other Pets:Affenpinschers typically get along well with other dogs, especially if raised with them, but they may display a prey drive towards smaller pets like rodents due to their history as ratters.

Children:Affenpinschers are generally good with children but are better suited for homes with older children who understand how to handle small dogs gently. They can be somewhat protective of their toys and food, so early socialization is important.

		 Other Pets: Affenpinschers can get along well with other dogs, especially if they are raised together. However, they may not tolerate rough or aggressive play from larger dogs, and they often have a high prey drive, making them inclined to chase smaller animals like cats or rodents.


Fun Facts


Monkey-like Appearance:The breed’s name, Affenpinscher, comes from the German word "Affen," meaning monkey, due to their facial expression, which resembles that of a monkey.

"Big Dog in a Small Body":Affenpinschers are often described as having a "big dog" attitude in a small, compact frame. They have a fearless, bold personality and often act as though they are much larger than they actually are.

Famous Companion:Actress Martha Stewart is a famous fan of the breed, and her Affenpinscher, Genghis Khan, often appeared with her in public.


Suitability


Best For:Individuals or families who are looking for an affectionate, lively, and small companion dog. They are ideal for people living in smaller homes or apartments who can provide them with the attention and care they need.

Challenging For:Those who are looking for an easy-to-train dog or a pet that can handle being left alone for long periods.


	In summary, the Affenpinscher is a fun, affectionate, and loyal companion with a distinctive look and personality, making it a unique choice for dog lovers who appreciate a small dog with a big personality.
The Affenpinscher, often affectionately called the "Monkey Dog," is a small but sturdy toy breed known for its distinctive appearance, lively personality, and terrier-like behavior. Despite its tiny size, the Affenpinscher is brave, confident, and full of energy. Here's a comprehensive introduction to this charming breed:
History and Origin
Physical Characteristics
Temperament and Personality
  Fearless and Bold: Despite their small size, Affenpinschers are known for their courage and confidence. They often display a fearless attitude, especially when protecting their home or family.
  Loyal and Affectionate: Affenpinschers form strong bonds with their owners and are known for their affectionate and loyal nature. They often enjoy sitting on their owner’s lap or following them around the house.
  Playful and Curious: They are curious and playful, with an almost comical sense of humor. Their mischievous nature can keep their families entertained, and they are always up for fun and games.
  Independent but Attentive: Affenpinschers have an independent streak, but they are also alert and will often follow their owners around to stay involved in whatever is happening.
Trainability and Activity
  Intelligence: Affenpinschers are quite intelligent, but they also have a stubborn and independent nature, which can make training a bit of a challenge.
  Patience Required: Training an Affenpinscher requires patience, consistency, and a positive reinforcement approach. Harsh methods are not effective with this breed due to their sensitive and spirited nature.
Health and Lifespan
Exercise and Activity Levels

Grooming
  Trimming: Regular trimming or hand-stripping is necessary to maintain their distinctive look. Many owners take their Affenpinschers to professional groomers every few months for a tidy-up.
Living Conditions
Good With Families and Pets?
Fun Facts
Suitability
In summary, the Affenpinscher is a fun, affectionate, and loyal companion with a distinctive look and personality, making it a unique choice for dog lovers who appreciate a small dog with a big personality.


1. Afghan Hound
2. Beagle dog breeds
3. Border Collie
4. Boxer dog breeds
5. American Cocker Spaniel
6. British Bulldog breeds
7. Chihuahua dog breeds
8. Chow Chow dog breeds
9. Affenpinscher
10. Collie dog breeds
11. Bichon Frise
12.  Kerry Blue Terrier
13. Bloodhound
14. Dachshunds
15. Dalmatians
16. Dobermann
17. German Shepherd
18. Golden Retriever
19. Great Dane
20. Greyhound
21. Jack Russell Terrier
22. Labrador Retriever
23. Maltese
24. Mastiffs
25. Newfoundland
26. Pomeranian
27. Poodles
28. Pugs
29. Rottweilers
30. Saint Bernard
31. Shih Tzu
32. Siberian Husky
33. Yorkshire Terrier
34. Brussels Griffon
35. Cavalier King Charles Spaniel
36. Barbet
37.  American Water Spaniel
38. Brittany Spaniel
39. English Springer Spaniel
40. Flat-Coated Retriever
41. German Shorthaired Pointer
42.  Sussex Spaniel
43.  Irish Red and White Setter
44.  Weimaraner
45. Welsh Springer Spaniel
46.  Black and Tan Coonhound
47. Basset Hound
48. Wirehaired Pointing Griffon
49. Basenji
50. American Foxhound
51. Bluetick Coonhound
52.  Irish Setter
53. Irish Wolfhound
54. Ibizan Hound
55. Harrier Dog Breed
56. Norwegian Elkhound
57. Plott Hound
58.  Irish Water Spaniel
59. Redbone Coonhound
60. Akita
61. Alaskan Malamute Dog Breed
62. Anatolian Shepherd Dog
63. Black Russian Terrier
64. Lagotto Romagnoloa
65. Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever
66.  Pointer
67. Otterhound
68. Petit Basset Griffon Vendéen
69. Pharaoh Hound
70. Rhodesian Ridgeback
71. Saluki
72. Scottish Deerhound
73.  Treeing Walker Coonhound
74.  Whippet
75.  Irish Terrier
76. Bernese Mountain Dog
77. Bullmastiff
78. Cane Corso Dog Breed
79. Chinook dog breeds
80. Doberman Pinscher
81. German Pinscher
82. Kuvasz
83. Norfolk Terrier
84. Norwich Terrier
85. Parson Russell Terrier
86. Standard Schnauzer
87. Bull Terrier
88.  Cairn Terrier
89. Dandie Dinmont Terrier
90. Fox Terrier (Smooth)
91.  Fox Terrier (Wire)
92. Tibetan Mastiff
93. Australian Terrier
94. Bedlington Terrier
95. Border Terrier
96. Manchester Terrier
97. Miniature Bull Terrier
98.  Airedale Terrier
99. Rat Terrier
100. Scottish Terrier
101. Skye Terrier
102.  Belgian Tervuren
103. Canaan Dog
104.  Sealyham Terrier
105. Bouvier des Flandres
106. Bergamasco
107. Briard dog breeds
108. Icelandic Sheepdog
109. Miniature American Shepherd
110. Staffordshire Bull Terrier
111. Norwegian Buhund
112. Old English Sheepdog
113. American Eskimo Dog
114. Chinese Shar-Pei
115. Finnish Spitz
116. Keeshond
117. Welsh Terrier
118. Lhasa Apso
119. Lowchen
120. Cirneco dell’Etna
121. Kai Ken
122. Karelian Bear Dog
123. West Highland White Terrier
124. Australian Shepherd
125. Bearded Collie
126. Belgian Sheepdog
127. Belgian Malinois
128. Cardigan Welsh Corgi
129. Entlebucher Mountain
130. Australian Cattle Dog
131. Finnish Lapphund
132. Pembroke Welsh Corgi
133. Polish Lowland Sheepdog
134. Boston Terrier
135.  Azawakh
136. Puli
137.  Pyrenean Shepherd
138. Shetland Sheepdog
139. Belgian Laekenois
140. Catahoula Leopard Dog
141. Kooikerhondje
142. Norwegian Lundehund
143. Schipperke
144.  Shiba Inu
145. Tibetan Spaniel
146. Xoloitzcuintli
147.  Tibetan Terrier
148.  Dutch Shepherd
149. Japanese Terrier
150. Thai Ridgeback
151.  Pumi
152. Portuguese Podengo
153. Peruvian Inca Orchid
154. Norrbottenspets
155. Mudi
156. Cavapoo
157. Shorkie
158. Pomsky
159. Schnoodle
160. Puggle
161. Maltipoo
162. Labradoodle
163. Cockapoo Dog Breed
164. Lakeland Terrier
165. Chinese Crested
166.  Pekingese
167. Poodle
168. Silky Terrier
169. Toy Fox Terrier
170. Vizsla
171. Borzoi
172. Bluetick Coonhound
173. Chesapeake Bay Retriever
174. Clumber Spaniel
175. Cocker Spaniel
176. Curly-Coated Retriever
177. English Setter
178.  English Toy Spaniel
179. Havanese
180. Italian Greyhound
181. Japanese Chin
182.  Miniature Pinscher
183. Papillon
184.  Field Spaniel
185.  Gordon Setter
186. Spinone Italiano
187. Giant Schnauzer
188.  Great Pyrenees
189. Greater Swiss Mountain
190. Komondor
191. Leonberger
192. Neapolitan Mastiff
193.  Dogue de Bordeaux
194.  Dogo Argentino
195.  Portuguese Water Dog
196. Samoyed
197. American Staffordshire Terrier
--------------------------------------------------
