The African wild dog (Lycaon pictus), also called painted dog and Cape hunting dog, is a wild canine native to sub-Saharan Africa. It is the largest wild canine in Africa, and the only extant member of the genus Lycaon, which is distinguished from Canis by dentition highly specialised for a hypercarnivorous diet and by a lack of dewclaws.
It is estimated that there are around 6,600 adults (including 1,400 mature individuals) living in 39 subpopulations, all threatened by habitat fragmentation, human persecution and outbreaks of disease. As the largest subpopulation probably consists of fewer than 250 individuals, the African wild dog has been listed as endangered on the IUCN Red List since 1990.
The African wild dog is a specialized hunter of terrestrial ungulates, mostly hunting at dawn and dusk, but also displays diurnal activity. It captures its prey by using stamina and cooperative hunting to exhaust them. Its natural competitors are lions and spotted hyenas: the former will kill the dogs where possible whilst the latter are frequent kleptoparasites. Like other canids, the African wild dog regurgitates food for its young but also extends this action to adults as a central part of the pack's social unit. The young have the privilege of feeding first on carcasses.
The African wild dog has been revered in several hunter-gatherer societies, particularly those of the San people and Prehistoric Egypt.
The English language has several names for the African wild dog, including African hunting dog, Cape hunting dog,[4] painted hunting dog,[5] painted dog,[6] painted wolf,[7] and painted lycaon.[8] Though the name African wild dog is widely used,[9] 'wild dog' is thought by conservation groups to have negative connotations that could be detrimental to its image; one organisation promotes the name 'painted wolf',[10][11][12] 
whilst the name 'painted dog' has been found to be the most likely to counteract negative perceptions.[13]
Domestic dog
Gray wolf
Coyote
African wolf
Golden jackal
Ethiopian wolf
Dhole
African wild dog
Side-striped jackal
Black-backed jackal
The earliest written reference for the species appears to be from Oppian, who wrote of the thoa, a hybrid between the wolf and leopard, which resembles the former in shape and the latter in colour. Solinus's Collea rerum memorabilium from the third century AD describes a multicoloured wolf-like animal with a mane native to Ethiopia.[8]
The African wild dog was scientifically described in 1820 by Coenraad Jacob Temminck after examining a specimen from the coast of Mozambique, which he named Hyaena picta.[3] It was later recognised as a canid by Joshua Brookes in 1827 and renamed Lycaon tricolor. The root word of Lycaon is the Greek λυκαίος (lykaios), meaning ‘wolf-like’. The specific epithet pictus (Latin for ‘painted’), which derived from the original picta, was later returned to it, in conformity with the International Rules on Taxonomic Nomenclature.[14]
Paleontologist George G. Simpson placed the African wild dog, the dhole and the bush dog together in the subfamily Simocyoninae on the basis of all three species having similarly trenchant carnassials. This grouping was disputed by Juliet Clutton-Brock, who argued that other than dentition too many differences exist among the three species to warrant classifying them in a single subfamily.[15]
The African wild dog possesses the most specialized adaptations among the canids for coat colour and diet and for pursuing its prey through its cursorial (running) ability. It has a graceful skeleton, and the loss of the first digit on its forefeet increases its stride and speed. This adaptation allows it to pursue prey across open terrain for long distances. The teeth are generally carnassial-shaped and its premolars are the largest relative to body size of any living carnivoran with the exception of the spotted hyena. On the lower carnassials (first lower molars), the talonid has evolved to become a cutting blade for flesh-slicing, with a reduction or loss of the post-carnassial molars. This adaptation also occurs in the two other hypercarnivorous canids – the dhole and the bush dog. The African wild dog exhibits one of the most varied coat colours among mammals. Individuals differ in patterns and colours, indicating a diversity of the underlying genes. The purpose of these coat patterns may be an adaptation for communication, concealment or temperature regulation. In 2019 a study indicated that the lycaon lineage diverged from Cuon and Canis 1.7 million years ago through this suite of adaptations, and these occurred at the same time as large ungulates (its prey) diversified. The findings also suggest that the African wild dog is largely isolated from gene transfer with other canid species.[16]
The oldest African wild dog fossil dates back to 200,000 years ago and was found in HaYonim Cave, Israel.[17][1] The evolution of the African wild dog is poorly understood owing to the scarcity of fossil finds. Some authors consider the extinct Canis subgenus Xenocyon as ancestral to both the genus Lycaon and the genus Cuon,[18][19][20][21]: p149  which lived throughout Eurasia and Africa from the Early Pleistocene to the early Middle Pleistocene. Others propose that Xenocyon should be reclassified as Lycaon.[1] The species Canis (Xenocyon) falconeri shared the African wild dog's absent first metacarpal (dewclaw), though its dentition was still relatively unspecialised.[1] This connection was rejected by one author because C. (X.) falconeri's lack of the first metacarpal is a poor indication of phylogenetic closeness to the African wild dog, and the dentition was too different to imply ancestry.[22]
Another ancestral candidate is the Plio-Pleistocene Lycaon sekowei of South Africa on the basis of distinct accessory cusps on its premolars and anterior accessory cuspids on its lower premolars. These adaptions are found only in Lycaon among living canids, which shows the same adaptations to a hypercarnivorous diet. L. sekowei had not yet lost the first metacarpal absent in L. pictus and was more robust than the modern species, having 10% larger teeth.[22]
The African wild dog has 78 chromosomes, the same number as those of species in the genus Canis.[23] In 2018 whole genome sequencing was used to compare the dhole (Cuon alpinus) with the African wild dog. There was strong evidence of ancient genetic admixture between the two species. Today their ranges are remote from each other; however during the Pleistocene era the dhole could be found as far west as Europe. The study proposes that the dhole's distribution may have once included the Middle East, from where it may have admixed with the African wild dog in North Africa. However, there is no evidence of the dhole having existed in the Middle East or North Africa.[24]
As of 2005[update], five subspecies are recognised by MSW3:[25]
Although the species is genetically diverse, these subspecific designations are not universally accepted. East African and Southern African wild dog populations were once thought to be genetically distinct, based on a small number of samples. More recent studies with a larger number of samples showed that extensive intermixing has occurred between East African and Southern African populations in the past. Some unique nuclear and mitochondrial alleles are found in Southern African and northeastern African populations, with a transition zone encompassing Botswana, Zimbabwe and southeastern Tanzania between the two. The West African wild dog population may possess a unique haplotype, thus possibly constituting a truly distinct subspecies.[31] The original Serengeti and Maasai Mara population of painted dogs is known to have possessed a unique genotype, but these genotypes may be extinct.[32]
The fur of the African wild dog differs significantly from that of other canids, consisting entirely of stiff bristle-hairs with no underfur.[33] Adults gradually lose their fur as it ages, with older individuals being almost naked.[37] Colour variation is extreme, and may serve in visual identification, as African wild dogs can recognise each other at distances of 50–100 m (160–330 ft).[36] Some geographic variation is seen in coat colour, with northeastern African specimens tending to be predominantly black with small white and yellow patches, while southern African ones are more brightly coloured, sporting a mix of brown, black and white coats.[4] Much of the species' coat patterning occurs on the trunk and legs. Little variation in facial markings occurs, with the muzzle being black, gradually shading into brown on the cheeks and forehead. A black line extends up the forehead, turning blackish-brown on the back of the ears. A few specimens sport a brown teardrop-shaped mark below the eyes. The back of the head and neck are either brown or yellow. A white patch occasionally occurs behind the fore legs, with some specimens having completely white fore legs, chests and throats. The tail is usually white at the tip, black in the middle and brown at the base. Some specimens lack the white tip entirely, or may have black fur below the white tip. These coat patterns can be asymmetrical, with the left side of the body often having different markings from the right.[36]
The African wild dog occurs foremost in Southern and East Africa.[2]
It is rare in North Africa and mostly absent in West Africa, with the only potentially viable population occurring in Senegal's Niokolo-Koba National Park. It is occasionally sighted in other parts of Senegal, Guinea and Mali. Its distribution is patchy in East Africa.[38]
It inhabits mostly savannas and arid zones, generally avoiding forested areas.[26] This preference is likely linked to its hunting habits, which require open areas that do not obstruct vision or impede pursuit.[33] It travels through scrubland, woodland and montane areas in pursuit of prey. A forest-dwelling population has been identified in the Harenna Forest, a wet montane forest up to an elevation of 2,400 m (7,900 ft) in the Bale Mountains of Ethiopia.[39] At least one record exists of a pack being sighted on the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro.[26] In Zimbabwe, it has been recorded at the elevation of 1,800 m (5,900 ft).[9] In Ethiopia, several packs were sighted at elevations of 1,900 to 2,800 m (6,200 to 9,200 ft), and a dead individual was found in June 1995 at 4,050 m (13,290 ft) on the Sanetti Plateau.[40] A stable population comprising more than 370 individuals is present in Kruger National Park.[41]
The African wild dog have strong social bonds, stronger than those of sympatric lions and spotted hyenas; thus, solitary living and hunting are extremely rare in the species.[42] It lives in permanent packs consisting of two to 27 adults and yearling pups. The typical pack size in the Kruger National Park and the Maasai Mara is four or five adults, while packs in Moremi and Selous Game Reserves contain eight or nine. However, larger packs have been observed and temporary aggregations of hundreds of individuals may have gathered in response to the seasonal migration of vast springbok herds in Southern Africa.[43] Males and females have separate dominance hierarchies, with the latter usually being led by the oldest female. Males may be led by the oldest male, but these can be supplanted by younger specimens; thus, some packs may contain elderly male former pack leaders. The dominant pair typically monopolises breeding.[36] The species differs from most other social carnivorans in that males remain in the natal pack, while females disperse (a pattern also found in primates such as gorillas, chimpanzees, and red colobuses). Furthermore, males in any given pack tend to outnumber females 3:1.[26] Dispersing females join other packs and evict some of the resident females related to the other pack members, thus preventing inbreeding and allowing the evicted individuals to find new packs of their own and breed.[36] Males rarely disperse, and when they do, they are invariably rejected by other packs already containing males.[26] Although arguably the most social canid, the species lacks the elaborate facial expressions and body language found in the gray wolf, likely because of the African wild dog's less hierarchical social structure. Furthermore, while elaborate facial expressions are important for wolves in re-establishing bonds after long periods of separation from their family groups, they are not as necessary to African wild dogs, which remain together for much longer periods.[15] The species does have an extensive vocal repertoire consisting of twittering, whining, yelping, squealing, whispering, barking, growling, gurling, rumbling, moaning and hooing.[44]
African wild dog populations in East Africa appear to have no fixed breeding season, whereas those in Southern Africa usually breed during the April–July period.[42] During estrus, the female is closely accompanied by a single male, which keeps other members of the same sex at bay.[26] The estrus period can last as long as 20 days.[45] The copulatory tie characteristic of mating in most canids has been reported to be absent[46] or very brief (less than one minute)[47] in African wild dog, possibly an adaptation to the prevalence of larger predators in its environment.[48] The gestation period lasts 69–73 days, with the interval between each pregnancy being 12–14 months typically. The African wild dog produces more pups than any other canid, with litters containing around six to 16 pups, with an average of 10, thus indicating that a single female can produce enough young to form a new pack every year. Because the amount of food necessary to feed more than two litters would be impossible to acquire by the average pack, breeding is strictly limited to the dominant female, which may kill the pups of subordinates. After giving birth, the mother stays close to the pups in the den, while the rest of the pack hunts. She typically drives away pack members approaching the pups until the latter are old enough to eat solid food at three to four weeks of age. The pups leave the den around the age of three weeks and are suckled outside. The pups are weaned at the age of five weeks, when they are fed regurgitated meat by the other pack members. By seven weeks, the pups begin to take on an adult appearance, with noticeable lengthening in the legs, muzzle, and ears. Once the pups reach the age of eight to 10 weeks, the pack abandons the den and the young follow the adults during hunts. The youngest pack members are permitted to eat first on kills, a privilege which ends once they become yearlings.[26] African wild dogs have an average lifespan of about 10 to 11 years in the wild.[49]
When separated from the pack, an African wild dog becomes depressed and can die as a result of broken heart syndrome.[50][51]
Packs of African wild dogs have a high ratio of males to females. This is a consequence of the males mostly staying with the pack whilst female offspring disperse and is supported by a changing sex-ratio in consecutive litters. Those born to maiden females contain a higher proportion of males, second litters are half and half and subsequent litters biased towards females with this trend increasing as females get older. As a result, the earlier litters provide stable hunters whilst the higher ratio of dispersals amongst the females stops a pack from getting too big.[52]
Populations in the Okavango Delta have been observed ‘rallying’ before setting out to hunt. Not every rally results in a departure, but departure becomes more likely when more individual dogs ‘sneeze’. These sneezes are characterized by a short, sharp exhale through the nostrils.[53] When members of dominant mating pairs sneeze first, the group is much more likely to depart. If a dominant dog initiates, around three sneezes guarantee departure. When less dominant dogs sneeze first, if enough others also sneeze (about 10), then the group will go hunting. Researchers assert that wild dogs in Botswana "use a specific vocalization (the sneeze) along with a variable quorum response mechanism in the decision-making process [to go hunting at a particular moment]".[53]
The African wild dog is a specialised pack hunter of common medium-sized antelopes.[56] It is a primarily diurnal predator and hunts by approaching prey silently, then chasing it in a pursuit clocking at up to 66 km/h (41 mph) for 10–60 minutes.[26][43] The average chase covers some 2 km (1.2 mi), during which the prey animal, if large, is repeatedly bitten on the legs, belly, and rump until it stops running, while smaller prey is simply pulled down and torn apart.[52]
African wild dogs adjust their hunting strategy to the particular prey species. They will rush at wildebeest to panic the herd and isolate a vulnerable individual, but pursue territorial antelope species (which defend themselves by running in wide circles) by cutting across the arc to foil their escape. Medium-sized prey is often killed in 2–5 minutes, whereas larger prey such as wildebeest may take half an hour to pull down. Male wild dogs usually perform the task of grabbing dangerous prey, such as warthogs, by the nose.[57]
A species-wide study showed that by preference, where available, five prey species were the most regularly selected, namely the greater kudu, Thomson's gazelle, impala, Cape bushbuck and blue wildebeest.[56][58] More specifically, in East Africa, its most common prey is the Thomson's gazelle, while in Central and Southern Africa, it targets impala, reedbuck, kob, lechwe and springbok,[26] and smaller prey such as common duiker, dik-dik, hares, spring hares, insects and cane rats.[42] Staple prey sizes are usually between 15 and 200 kg (33 and 441 lb), though some local studies put upper prey sizes as variously 90 to 135 kg (198 to 298 lb). In the case of larger species such as kudu and wildebeest, calves are largely but not exclusively targeted.[56][59][60] However, certain packs in the Serengeti specialized in hunting adult plains zebras weighing up to 240 kg (530 lb) quite frequently.[61] Another study claimed that some prey taken by wild dogs could weigh up to 289 kg (637 lb).[62] This includes African buffalo juveniles during the dry season when herds are small and calves less protected.[59] Footage from Lower Zambezi National Park taken in 2021 showed a large pack of African wild dogs hunting an adult, healthy buffalo, though this is apparently extremely rare.[63] One pack was recorded to occasionally prey on bat-eared foxes, rolling on the carcasses before eating them. African wild dogs rarely scavenge, but have on occasion been observed to appropriate carcasses from spotted hyenas, leopards, cheetahs, lions, and animals caught in snares.[9]
Hunting success varies with prey type, vegetation cover and pack size, but African wild dogs tend to be very successful: often more than 60% of their chases end in a kill, sometimes up to 90%.[64] An analysis of 1,119 chases by a pack of six Okavango wild dogs showed that most were short distance uncoordinated chases, and the individual kill rate was only 15.5 percent. Because kills are shared, each dog enjoyed an efficient benefit–cost ratio.[65][66]
Small prey such as rodents, hares and birds are hunted singly, with dangerous prey such as cane rats and Old World porcupines being killed with a quick and well-placed bite to avoid injury. Small prey is eaten entirely, while large animals are stripped of their meat and organs, leaving the skin, head, and skeleton intact.[42][67] The African wild dog is a fast eater, with a pack being able to consume a Thomson's gazelle in 15 minutes. In the wild, the species' consumption is 1.2–5.9 kg (2.6–13.0 lb) per African wild dog a day, with one pack of 17–43 individuals in East Africa having been recorded to kill three animals per day on average.[9]
Unlike most social predators, African wild dogs will regurgitate food for other adults as well as young family members.[42] Pups old enough to eat solid food are given first priority at kills, eating even before the dominant pair; subordinate adult dogs help feed and protect the pups.[43]
Lions dominate African wild dogs and are a major source of mortality for both adults and pups.[68] Population densities are usually low in areas where lions are more abundant.[69] One pack reintroduced into Etosha National Park was wiped out by lions. A population crash in lions in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area during the 1960s resulted in an increase in African wild dog sightings, only for their numbers to decline once the lions recovered.[68] As with other large predators killed by lion prides, the dogs are usually killed and left uneaten by the lions, indicating the competitive rather than predatory nature of the lions' dominance.[70][71] However, a few cases have been reported of old and wounded lions falling prey to African wild dogs.[72][73] On occasion, packs of wild dogs have been observed defending pack members attacked by single lions, sometimes successfully. One pack in the Okavango in March 2016 was photographed by safari guides waging "an incredible fight" against a lioness that attacked a subadult dog at an impala kill, which forced the lioness to retreat, although the subadult dog died. A pack of four wild dogs was observed furiously defending an old adult male dog from a male lion that attacked it at a kill; the dog survived and rejoined the pack.[74]
African wild dogs commonly lose their kills to larger predators.[75] Spotted hyenas are important kleptoparasites[68] and follow packs of African wild dogs to appropriate their kills. They typically inspect areas where wild dogs have rested and eat any food remains they find. When approaching wild dogs at a kill, solitary hyenas approach cautiously and attempt to take off with a piece of meat unnoticed, though they may be mobbed in the attempt. When operating in groups, spotted hyenas are more successful in pirating African wild dog kills, though the latter's greater tendency to assist each other puts them at an advantage against spotted hyenas, which rarely work cooperatively. Cases of African wild dogs scavenging from spotted hyenas are rare. Although African wild dog packs can easily repel solitary hyenas, on the whole, the relationship between the two species is a one-sided benefit for the hyenas,[76] with African wild dog densities being negatively correlated with high hyena populations.[77] Beyond piracy, cases of interspecific killing of African wild dogs by spotted hyenas are documented.[78] African wild dogs are apex predators, only fatally losing contests to larger social carnivores.[79] When briefly unprotected, wild dog pups may occasionally be vulnerable to large eagles, such as the martial eagle, when they venture out of their dens.[80]
The African wild dog is primarily threatened by habitat fragmentation, which results from human–wildlife conflict, transmission of infectious diseases and high mortality rates; it has been exterminated in large parts of North and West Africa, and its population has greatly reduced in Central Africa, Uganda and much of Kenya.[2] Surveys in the Central African Republic's Chinko area revealed that the African wild dog population decreased from 160 individuals in 2012 to 26 individuals in 2017. At the same time, transhumant pastoralists from the border area with Sudan moved in the area with their livestock.[79]
The non-governmental organization African Wild Dog Conservancy began working in 2003 to conserve the African wild dog in northeastern and coastal Kenya, a convergence zone of two biodiversity hotspots. This area largely consists of community lands inhabited by pastoralists. With the help of local people, a pilot study was launched confirming the presence of a population of wild dogs largely unknown to conservationists.[81] Over the next 16 years, local ecological knowledge revealed this area to be a significant refuge for African wild dogs and an important wildlife corridor connecting Kenya's Tsavo National Parks with the Horn of Africa in an increasingly human-dominated landscape. This project has been identified as a wild dog conservation priority by the IUCN/SSC Canid Specialist Group.[82][83]
Depictions of African wild dogs are prominent on cosmetic palettes and other objects from Egypt's predynastic period, likely symbolising order over chaos and the transition between the wild and the domestic dog. Predynastic hunters may have identified with the African wild dog, as the Hunters Palette shows them wearing the animals' tails on their belts. By the dynastic period, African wild dog illustrations became much less represented, and the animal's symbolic role was largely taken over by the wolf.[84][85]
According to Enno Littmann, the people of Ethiopia's Tigray Region believed that injuring a wild dog with a spear would result in the animal dipping its tail in its wounds and flicking the blood at its assailant, causing instant death. For this reason, Tigrean shepherds used to repel wild dog attacks with pebbles rather than with edged weapons.[86]
The African wild dog also plays a prominent role in the mythology of Southern Africa's San people. In one story, the wild dog is indirectly linked to the origin of death, as the hare is cursed by the moon to be forever hunted by African wild dogs after the hare rebuffs the moon's promise to allow all living things to be reborn after death.[87] Another story has the god Cagn taking revenge on the other gods by sending a group of men transformed into African wild dogs to attack them, though who won the battle is never revealed.[88] The San of Botswana see the African wild dog as the ultimate hunter and traditionally believe that shamans and medicine men can transform themselves into wild dogs. Some San hunters will smear African wild dog bodily fluids on their feet before a hunt, believing that doing so will give them the animal's boldness and agility. Nevertheless, the species does not figure prominently in San rock art, with the only notable example being a frieze in Mount Erongo showing a pack hunting two antelopes.[88]
The Ndebele have a story explaining why the African wild dog hunts in packs: in the beginning, when the first wild dog's wife was sick, the other animals were concerned. An impala went to hare, who was a medicine man. Hare gave Impala a calabash of medicine, warning him not to turn back on the way to Wild Dog's den. Impala was startled by the scent of a leopard and turned back, spilling the medicine. A zebra then went to Hare, who gave him the same medicine along with the same advice. On the way, Zebra turned back when he saw a black mamba, thus breaking the gourd. A moment later a terrible howling was heard: Wild Dog's wife had died. Wild Dog went outside and saw Zebra standing over the broken gourd of medicine, so Wild Dog and his family chased Zebra and tore him to shreds. To this day, African wild dogs hunt zebras and impalas as revenge for their failure to deliver the medicine that could have saved Wild Dog's wife.[89]
--------------------------------------------------
Animal Corner
Discover the many amazing animals that live on our planet.
The African Wild Dog (Lycaon pictus) is a mammal native only to Africa. It is a member of the canidae family which also includes dogs, coyotes, dingos, jackals and wolves. It is known by other names such as the Painted Hunting Dog, African Hunting Dog, Cape Hunting Dog and Painted Wolf. In Swahili it is referred to as ‘Mbwa mwilu’.
The African Wild Dogs scientific name ‘Lycaon pictus’ comes from the Greek language for ‘wolf’ and Latin for ‘painted’. It is the only species in the Genus ‘Lycaon’.
The African Wild Dog has an uniquely patterned coat. The irregular pattern is colored with white, yellow, brown and black markings. Each pattern is unique to each individual, just like a Giraffes pattern and a humans fingerprints are individually unique. They have slim, lean bodies and long, slender legs. They have large, rounded distinctive ears and a long tail which has a white plume at the end.
Their muzzles are black and they have a black line which extends down their forehead. African Wild Dogs measure around 1.5 metres (5 feet) in length which includes its head and a tail length of around 30 – 40 centimetres. It stands around 75 centimetres at the shoulder and weighs 37 – 80 pounds.
East and West African dogs tend to be smaller than those in South Africa. Males are usually larger than females in all regions. African Wild Dogs differ from other members of the canidae family in that they only have four toes on each paw instead of five as they lack dew claws (which is the fifth digit on other canids). They have around 42 teeth including premolars that are much larger than in other canids allowing it to consume large amounts of bone.
The African Wild Dogs preferred habitats are open woodlands, grasslands and savannas. Dogs in the southern regions inhabit the open savannas of the sahara desert.
African Wild Dogs are strict carnivores. They prey upon a variety of grazing animals particularly medium sized ungulates such as Zebras, Antelopes, Impalas, Gazelles and Springboks. Most of their diet is mammal prey, however, they do sometimes hunt large birds such as ostriches. Larger packs may hunt larger animals such as wildebeests.
Warthogs are also hunted, however, care has to be taken not be inflicted with a potentially lethal wound by the warthogs sharp tusks although safety in numbers is usually the resolve. Wild dogs rarely consume carrion and will not return to an earlier kill.
African Wild Dogs live together in packs containing between 10 – 20 individuals. Home ranges vary in size and depend on the availability of prey but can be more than 1000 square kilometres (620 square miles). Packs often contain more males than females. Most members of the pack are related to each other in some way. Packs will contain an alpha male and female who are the main breeding pairs.
Males and females each have their own hierarchies with the oldest female being the dominant individual and in contrast, the youngest male taking charge of the males. Wild dogs are very sociable animals and have a submissive based hierarchy rather than a dominant one. Dominance is established without any fighting or blood-shed. Even over food, an individual will energetically beg rather than get into conflict. This non-aggressive approach is emphasised perhaps because if any injuries occur, the pack will be short of hunters and unable to provide as much for its members.
African Wild Dog packs have intense social bonds and these bonds are a great advantage during hunts. They are extremely co-operative as a hunting pack when running down and over-powering prey in long distance chases. Hunts are not strategically cunning at all. In the early, cool mornings and late afternoons the Wild Dogs will approach their prey in full view. Surprise attacks are unnecessary as African Wild Dogs have the stamina to chase prey until it is exhausted.
The Wild Dogs top speed is 60 kilometres per hour (37 miles per hour) and prey will most often be able to gallop so what faster. However, prey will eventually be chased down over distances of 6 kilometres (3.5 miles). Typical hunts are seen more as an endurance chase. During these long distance chases, Wild Dogs will spread out to prevent prey from any sideways escape attempts. The preys zig-zagging evasive movements which would normally confuse a lone hunter such as a Cheetah, are ineffective against the pack of wild dogs.
The hunting pack keep in touch constantly throughout the hunt by producing high pitched yapping contact calls. As the exhausted prey eventually slows down, the dogs surround it targeting their softer underparts and killing their victim. Wild Dog hunts have a high success rate with 3 out of 4 hunts resulting in a kill. While a whole herd of ungulates may be targeted, the eventual victim will be the one who falls behind due to age or sickness.
African Wild Dogs have a very powerful bite and their large molars and premolars allow them to easily crush the bones of their catch. When the dogs have eaten their prey, they return to the pack and regurgitate the food to pups, older dogs and to members that where not part of the hunt.
There is no particular breeding season for the African Wild Dog although mating can increase through the latter part of the rainy season around March and June. After a gestation period of around 70 days, the female gives birth to a litter of around 10 pups (few usually survive because of predators).
Pups are born in an underground den or another animals abandoned den (usually an Aardvark). Pups are weaned at 10 weeks and when they reach 3 months, they leave the den to begin running with the pack. They are able to kill small prey at 11 months and can fend for themselves at around 14 months. Pups are able to breed when they reach sexual maturity at between 12 – 18 months.
Male wild dogs continue to stay with their birth pack, however, females may leave and join other packs that lack sexually mature females. This behaviour is quite unusual as it is the opposite way round with most other social animals. Other unusual traits of the wild dogs is that the females will compete for access to the males and males are often left to rear the pups while the female joins the hunting pack.
The average lifespan of a wild dog is 10 years.
African Wild Dogs are an endangered species. Once there were around 500,000, now there are only 2,000 – 5,000 in existence today mostly living in national parks or preserves.
Major threats to wild dogs are hunting and habitat loss. Competition with larger carnivores such as lions and spotted hyenas is also a problem for the wild dog as they both pursue the same type of prey. Lions will kill as many wild dogs as it can, but it does not eat them. Wild dogs are also killed by farmers who want to protect their livestock and disease can spread from domestic animals. These problems have all contributed to the small size of wild dog populations.
I've always been passionate about animals which led me to a career in training and behaviour. As an animal professional I'm committed to improving relationships between people and animals to bring them more happiness.
--------------------------------------------------
African Life
The African Hunting Dog Breed, also known as the painted wolf or painted dog, is one of the most fascinating and endangered carnivores in Africa.  These highly social animals, with their distinctive mottled coats, are known for their incredible hunting prowess and complex social structures.  Let’s delve into the world of these unique canids.
What makes the African hunting dog breed so special?  Their striking appearance is certainly a contributing factor.  No two painted wolves have the same coat pattern, making each individual easily identifiable.  Beyond their aesthetics, these dogs exhibit incredible teamwork and communication during hunts, often taking down prey much larger than themselves.  Their success rate is remarkably high, estimated to be around 80%, showcasing their effectiveness as predators.  You might be surprised to learn about the african hunting dog breeds.
The African hunting dog breed lives in highly structured packs, typically led by a dominant alpha pair.  This cooperative social structure extends to pup rearing, with all pack members participating in caring for the young.  This communal approach ensures the survival of the next generation, a crucial factor for a species facing numerous threats.  These unique family dynamics set them apart from other canid species.
Are there different african hunting dog breeds? Actually, while variations in coat patterns exist, there aren’t distinct breeds of African hunting dogs.
Despite their impressive hunting skills, the African hunting dog breed faces a precarious future.  Habitat loss, human conflict, and disease are major threats to their survival. Conservation efforts are crucial to protect these remarkable animals and ensure their continued existence in the wild.  Learning more about the african hunting dog facts can help in understanding the challenges they face.
Various organizations are working to protect the African hunting dog breed through initiatives like habitat preservation, anti-poaching patrols, and community education programs.  These efforts aim to mitigate the threats and create a more secure future for the painted wolves.  It is important to support these initiatives to ensure the survival of this unique species.  Did you know about the african dog with family planning idea?  It’s a fascinating aspect of their social structure.
The name “painted wolf” perfectly describes the African hunting dog breed’s unique and irregular coat markings, which resemble splashes of paint in various shades of brown, black, white, and yellow. These patterns not only provide camouflage but also serve as individual identification within the pack.  Discover more about african dog breeds wiki.
Dr. Sarah Jones, a renowned wildlife biologist specializing in African canids, states, “The painted wolf’s unique coat pattern is not only visually striking but also serves a vital purpose in individual recognition within their complex social structure.”  Similarly, Dr. David Brown, a conservationist with decades of experience in Africa, adds, “Protecting the African hunting dog requires a multi-faceted approach that addresses habitat loss, human-wildlife conflict, and the spread of diseases.”
The African hunting dog breed, with its remarkable hunting abilities, intricate social dynamics, and striking appearance, is a truly remarkable species.  By understanding the threats they face and supporting conservation efforts, we can help ensure the survival of these painted wolves for future generations.
You might be interested in these related topics:
When you need support please contact us Phone Number: +255768904061, Email: [email protected] Or visit us at: Mbarali DC Mawindi, Kangaga, Tanzania. We have a 24/7 customer care team.
Botswana, a country renowned for its breathtaking landscapes and abundant wildlife, is also home to the largest population of African elephants in the world. However, this coexistence has its challenges, and one that has gained increasing attention is the issue of African elephant attacks. While elephants are generally peaceful creatures, certain factors can trigger aggressive…
African Jungle Life Documentary filmmaking offers a captivating glimpse into the heart of one of the world’s most biodiverse and fascinating ecosystems. These documentaries unveil the complex web of life that thrives within the African jungles, showcasing the incredible array of animals, plants, and the delicate balance that sustains them. From the dense rainforests of…
The presence of African Drug Peddlers In Vizag has become a growing concern, raising questions about international drug trafficking networks and their impact on local communities. This article delves into the multifaceted issue of African drug peddlers in Vizag, examining the socio-economic factors, law enforcement challenges, and the potential solutions to address this complex problem….
The fascinating intersection of African and Indian cultures, often represented by the Malayalam term “പ ര” (meaning “other”), reveals a rich tapestry of shared history, traditions, and influences. This exploration delves into the complexities of the African Indian diaspora, examining its historical roots, cultural expressions, and contemporary presence. A Historical Overview of the African Indian…
African Kid experiences are diverse and rich, shaped by a vibrant tapestry of cultures, traditions, and socio-economic realities. This article delves into the world of African children, exploring their daily lives, education, challenges, and the resilience they embody. African Children Playing Together in a Village The Diverse World of the African Kid Childhood in Africa…
--------------------------------------------------
Menu
African Wild Dog
AF-ri-kuhn wahyld dawg
The African Wild Dog has spotted coloration on its coat. It is sufficiently unique that no two animals have the same pattern. It has very good eye sight and, unlike other canids, it hunts only by sight and not by scent. Its body is thin and strongly muscled with long, thin legs. Its ears are large and pointed upright.
African Wild Dogs are not domesticated dogs. They live in the wild and in zoos. Inside their dog packs they have strong family bonds headed by an alpha male and alpha female. They live in stable groups of related males with related females leaving to join a different pack at 14 to 30 months old. Pups are given priority at feeding; adults wait until youngsters have finished. They all cooperate with each other when hunting, following the direction signals of the alpha male. Hunting occurs around dawn and dusk. Gestation is approximately 71 days with a litter of 6 to 10 puppies. Pups can begin eating regurgitated solid food at about 3 weeks. During the first 2 months the pups are protected by 1 to 2 adults when the pack is hunting. Pups are weaned in 10 to 12 weeks and reach sexual maturity between 12 to 18 months. In the wild, the African Wild Dog eats gazelle, antelope, zebra, warthog and drink little water because they receive adequate amounts from blood of prey. In captivity, such as a zoo, they eat dried dog food and bones.
Length of body is 30 - 40 inches (71 - 85 cm)
    The tail is 12-16 inches (31-41cm) long.
    Weight: 44 to 60 pounds (20.5 - 27 kg)
-
The African Wild Dog lives outdoors. It is an undomesticated breed living in Africa and in zoos.
This wild dog has great endurance; on the final part of the hunt it can reach speeds of up to 37 mph.
About 10 years.
2 to 21 pups with the average of about 6 to 9 pups
-
The African Wild Dog is considered an endangered species. It can be found in Africa south of the Sahara Desert in areas of semi-desert to mountains and in zoos.
-
-
--------------------------------------------------
Fact Animal
Facts About Animals
The African wild dog, sometimes referred to as the African painted wolf, painted dog or the cape hunting dog, is a medium sized pack-hunting dog found only in Africa. These striking animals are known as one of the most efficient and specialised hunters in the habitats in which they are found.
African wild dogs are most closely related to wolves and share many similarities with them. They have complex social structures and capture their prey through exceptional teamwork and excellent endurance.

African wild dogs are incredibly social animals and can live in packs of up to 60 individuals. The pack is led by a male and female breeding pair, with all other individuals helping with hunting as well as taking care of the young pups.
They have huge ranges, extending up to 2000km2 and require this vast area in order to hunt their prey. The African wild dog is an excellent hunter and has one of the most successful hunting strategies of all large predators. What makes them such effective hunters is their incredible endurance and ability to work as a team.
The pack runs their prey to exhaustion and when the prey begins to tire and run back on itself, other individuals in the pack are able to intercept and pull the prey down. This is no easy task as wild dogs will hunt animals as big as wildebeest. This can mean up to 21 dogs may be needed to pull the animal to the ground.
African wild dogs live in and around underground dens, though usually only the pups and parents sleep underground. They are almost strictly diurnal and therefore spend the night in relative safety away from larger predators.
Though the breeding pair are leaders of the pack, all other individuals are part of a hierarchy system and this determines when they get access to captured prey and the preferred sleeping areas.
Despite this strict system, wild dogs are very docile with one another and greet each other with much enthusiasm if they have been apart for any length of time. After a hunt some pack members will regurgitate food for not only pups, but even sick and injured dogs that remained at the den.
Historically, African wild dogs roamed across much of Africa, however their numbers have been in rapid decline for many years and they are classified as endangered.
This is in part due to the encroachment of humans into their range but also through the transmission of canine diseases from feral and domestic dogs is particularly devastating to the species. Thankfully they are now a protected species in much of their range and conservationists are aiming to increase their numbers and dispersal across Africa. 1
By body mass, only the gray wolf is larger than the African wild dog.
They are the largest wild canine in Africa, and can grow up to 75cm in height and weigh as much as 36kg.

Despite having such large ears, wild dogs most often look for injured or young prey when hunting. They choose which animal would be the easiest target before beginning the chase. 2
They possess an athletic skeleton structure and one less digit on their forefeet, which both contribute to helping this dog take long strides and reach great speeds when hunting.
They are able to clock speeds of 66 kph (41 mph) and more impressively, continue chasing prey until for up to 60mins at a time, until their prey is exhausted.
Packs of African wild dogs hunt greater kudu, gazelle, impala, springbok and zebra, with a 60% success rate for kills which is impressive.
They have the largest premolars relative to body size of any living carnivoran except for the spotted hyena, which helps them chew their hypercarnivorous diet.

Rather than fighting to settle disputes or food rights, African wild dogs communicate through various facial and vocal signals so as to avoid conflict.
This is very important as the survival of the pack relies on teamwork from all members. They also do not scent mark their territory, usually only around their den, unlike other canine species.
African wild dogs do not waste energy chasing away vultures, jackals and other scavengers. They eat extremely quickly so as to not encounter larger predators such as lions. 3
Though hyenas do not prey on wild dogs, they do occasionally kill cubs and try to steal food from them. Wild dogs do not tolerate hyenas in their vicinity and will mob them; biting at their ankles and flanks before chasing them away.

Unlike many other social mammals, it is the females that leave the pack when they reach sexual maturity. This prevents inbreeding and male-only packs are able create larger packs with those females which have left their original group. 4
As it is only the dominant pair that breed in a pack, only one female produces a litter. This is very important due the fact that the pack would not be able to feed all the pups if more litters were produced. 5

People observing wild dogs often remark on the strong smell they produce.
This is likely a mechanism to ensure individuals are able to find one another after a long chase, as well as being able to recognise different members of the pack.
Once they reach approximately 10 weeks old, the pack leaves the den and the pups follow them on hunts, learning the necessary skills required in the chase.

Their unique, tricoloured coats and wolf-like traits led to the wild dog being given the Latin name meaning “Painted Wolf”. 6
Wild dogs rely on large areas to hunt. As these areas have been broken up into smaller sections, wild dog numbers have dwindled.
On top of this, they now come into more contact with domestic dogs, leading to transmission of diseases which can kill and wipe out entire packs.
It’s estimated that there are fewer than 6,600 adult African wild dogs today.
--------------------------------------------------
