Cat Breeds
The American Bobtail cat is renowned for its friendly, almost doglike personality as well as its wild appearance. This incredible breed does have feral ancestors, but its behavior is purely domesticated.
American Bobtail cats are highly intelligent, with a reputation for being talkative. They are known to develop wide vocabularies that include a variety of meows, chirps, and purrs.
Despite the American Bobtail's feral cat ancestry, members of the breed are known to develop strong bonds with their human families. In addition, they have a reputation for getting along very well with other pets.
In addition to being outgoing, American Bobtails are also incredibly active, with an appreciation for jumping, climbing, and exciting games. These cats are highly trainable, too. Favorite activities include playing fetch and walking on leashes with their family members.
American Bobtail cats are wily escape artists, easily making their way out of confinement even when placed in closed carriers. If you have an American bobtail cat and you need to transport them, you'll want to make sure that the carrier is latched!
American Bobtail cats do not have any special dietary requirements, other than a nutritious meat-based diet that satisfies their needs as obligate carnivores. Feed measured meals rather than leaving out food all day so your cat does not overeat and become obese.
American Bobtail cats come in both short coats and medium-length long coats. Both coat types are fairly easy to care for. Regular brushing will help keep your American Bobtail cat looking good, and they'll love the attention. Since these cats are robust climbers, keep their nails trimmed regularly.
American Bobtail cats are highly active and are very playful. These curious cats love games, and will play and climb with intensity. If you've always wanted a cat that enjoys human interaction, and you like the idea of walking your cat on a leash, then the American Bobtail might be the ideal breed for you.
Treat your cat to a high-quality climbing tower and a window perch, as well as multiple scratching posts and a basket full of toys. If you can find toys with shiny surfaces, it's likely that they'll become some of your cat's favorites.
American Bobtail cats are notorious for their good health. The breed is not predisposed to any known health conditions.
The American Bobtail cat is a relatively new cat breed, having been developed in the 1960s using a feral brown tabby male with a naturally short tail and a seal point domestic female.
Although many cat breeds are formed using exclusively pedigreed cats as foundation stock, this breed stands out for its development through natural selection. The foundation stock was almost exclusively made up of feral domestic cats with natural bobtails.
Several different breeders from different parts of the United States worked together to develop the American Bobtail cat as we know it. Even though the foundation cats had no known common heritage, they were all alike in type. The result is a strong, vibrant cat breed with a distinct appearance and no known genetic defects.
The gene that gives the American Bobtail cat its signature shortened tail is dominant. This is an important difference between the American Bobtail cat and the Japanese Bobtail cat. The Japanese Bobtail cat has a recessive gene for its short tail.
The International Cat Association (TICA) officially recognized the American Bobtail cat in 1989. Since then, the breed has been accepted for championship competition by the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA). It is also sanctioned by the Cat Aficionado Association of China. The World Cat Federation recognizes the breed but does not accept it for competition.
American Bobtail cats take a long time to reach maturity. Most don't reach their full stature until they are between 2 and 3 years old.
American Bobtails have a fanciful quirk: They absolutely love shiny objects, and will go to great lengths to steal them. It's not uncommon for owners to find stashes of shiny objects that have been hidden by their American Bobtail cats!
Even though they are big and wild looking, American Bobtail cats are excellent family pets. They love children and they enjoy snuggling. Some people refer to them as the Golden Retrievers of the cat world.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The American Bobtail, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed American Bobtail or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase an American Bobtail, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
American Bobtail cats cost between $600 - $1,000.
American Bobtail cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown American Bobtail cat might weigh between 7-18 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 10"-14" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for American Bobtail is 12-15 years.
American Bobtail are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
this past October, I adopted a stray kitten, which I thought may have had either American or Japanese Bobtail; when I was younger, I had a part Manx cat, named Jinx and, at two years of age, he weighed to be about 25 lbs. I took Bobbi, my recently adopted kitten, to the veterinarian and he, like I, believed her to be one, of the Bobtail breeds, that I suspected. I looked up this information because, though I’ve seen pictures, and videos, of Japanese Bobtails, they looked lighter, in physique and body appearance, to Bobbi. I never had seen an American Bobtail, but, when I saw her outside my neighbor’s garage, they had remarked that she looked like a Bobcat kitten, but was apparently friendly. I got her checked, microchipped, and spayed by my veterinarian. Bobbi is the youngest of my six feline roomies, who range in age from 8-9 mos. [Bobbi] to 14 years [Pumpkin] and range in weight from 6.7 lbs. [Ebony] to 24-25 lbs. [Pumpkin]. Bobbi is very active and plays with her ‘adopted siblings’. I wanted to thank you for the information, regarding a breed which is a part of Bobbi’s lineage.
My American Bobtail is now 12 and going strong, Thank the Lord!  I partially hand reared him and he point blank refused to give up his bedtime milk bottle until he was 8 months old.  He loves three individuals …. His Mum and Dad, and his baby dog sister (they are a Mission Impossible team and thick as thieves sharing my side of the bed) ….. It took him six years to even acknowledge our cat loving gardener.  Additionally, he loves the great outdoors and has “nests” around the garden and field spending 18 of 24 hours a day on patrol ….. In Texas, he came in each night at 10pm …. Slept quiet and safe …. Woke me up at 6am to eat breakfast and go out.  He emigrated to the UK with us where he realised that life was less dangerous with no coyotes, packs of wild dogs, rattle snacks, fire ants etc ….. He loves sleeping out on a warm night and has created “nests” under windproof hedges, in the greenhouses, under the rose arbour ….. And now uses a microchip recognising cat flap.  He’s probably the most intelligent cat (saving for two Orientals and a Turkish Van) that I have ever had ….. Definitely Head Boy of the School.  He has his own “estate” and aside from one Tom buddy, no cat steps on his land ….. Very dominant.  He does however, check daily on the two old ladies in their 80’s who live down each end of the lane.  His weakness?  The occasional prawn!
Fabulous breed of cat!
What is the difference between American Bob tail and the Kurilian . How to tell ?
Hi Ron,
Good question, the American Bobtail usually has a longer, twisty tail, while the Kurilian Bobtail has a shorter, poofy tail. Also, the American Bobtail’s head is more pointy, and it comes in lots of different fur lengths and colors, while the Kurilian Bobtail’s head is rounder, and its fur is thicker.
We have an American bobtail kitten,she is most affectionate and loving to all. She loves playing fetch and she waits for you at the door when you come home. She meows and chirps. We may want to breed her once since the breed is rare.
That would be irresponsible to bring kittens into a world filled with kittens and cats in shelters looking for homes,shelters are overflowing and kitten season is right around the corner,I have a four year old female American Bobtail and I would never breed her for money!
We adopted a American bobtail 6 yrs ago. She came from a reservation and we were told she didn’t like other cars, dogs or small children. She’s not very playful but does like to sit in my lap or next to me. She won’t do that with my husband although she will play on the floor with him. She also doesn’t meow.  Don’t know what happen to her in her first 6 months but she is sweet in her own way.
Love my little bobtail. She plays fetch and walks on her leash for as long as I will let her. Absolutely loves little fake mice and will jump and bat them out of the air. I almost wish I could have found another to breed her but unfortunately I got her spayed. Will be my little friend for life.
I have two bobtail cats (siblings). I have had a number of cats in the past. These bobtails are the most affectionate cats I have ever had. They love to be pet and often cuddle up with me. They are also strongly bonded- they groom each other and sleep next to each other all the time. I adopted these bobtails from humane society and consider myself extremely fortunate!
Thanks for sharing, Heather!
Hey my name is Brittany Johnson Daniel and I’m looking for a female bobtail cat
Due to the passing of a friend I now take care of 3 bobtails. The. Daddy and 2 babies. My friend lived up the hill from me and after she passed the dad brought his 2 bobtail babies to my house. One is a gray stripe tabby female.
I have a female that had kittens. She made a good mom, they just showed up at my door . Been feeding them . 3 kittens 1 has no tail (like mom)
Looking for American bobtail with a long tail just lost mine had him for 12 years.  When I purchased him they called it a throw away maybe because his tail was long not bob. If someone can back to me and recommend a breeder I would appreciate it. Thank you
A Bombay cat is a really great cat but they don’t drink much water and gets really bad uterine infections which can kill them if they don’t get spayed. They follow you around every where and if you leave them alone a lot make sure she has toys everywhere and they get depressed when their person isn’t around my cat goes in the bath with me to keep me company in the tub. They love water playing and snuggling under blankets. I have an orange bobtail and a Bombay
That is the craziest thing I’ve ever heard lol. Bombay cats don’t drink less water than any other breed. And they, along with any breed of cat can get URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS if they don’t drink enough water not uterine infections! So spaying is not a factor whatsoever! Eliminate dry kibble completely from their diet (read catinfo .org) and invest in a water fountain and whether your cat is spayed or not (though they should be) this will insure they won’t suffer urinary tract infections.
I currently have 2 (almost ferrel) kittens that are ready to go.
--------------------------------------------------
The American Bobtail is an uncommon breed of domestic cat which was developed in the late 1960s.[1] It is  most notable for its stubby "bobbed" tail about one-third to one-half the length of a normal cat's tail. This is the result of a cat body type genetic mutation affecting the tail development, similar to that of a Manx cat.[1] The breed is not related to other short-tailed breeds, such as the Cymric cat, or the Japanese Bobtail or Kurilian Bobtail, despite the similar name and physical type—the breeding programs are entirely unrelated, and the genetic mutation causing the bobbed tail are known to be different, as the mutation causing the American Bobtail's short tail is dominant; comparatively, the Japanese Bobtail, for example, has a tail mutation that is recessive.[2]
American Bobtails are a very sturdy breed, with both short- and long-haired coats. Their coat is shaggy rather than dense or fluffy. They can have any color of eyes and coat, with a strong emphasis on the "wild" tabby appearance in show animals.[1]
Urban legend says that Bobtails are the result of a cross breeding between a domestic tabby cat and a wild bobcat.  The unusual tail is actually the result of a random spontaneous genetic mutation within the domestic cat population, and may be related to the Manx gene, which is also dominant.[1] Yodie, a short-tailed brown tabby male, was mated with a seal-point Siamese female to create the American Bobtail's original bloodline. Most of the early bloodlines have died out.[1]
This cat's original appearance genetics were modified in the breed to form a new and improved strain which comes in essentially all colors and coat types.  The breed was first recognized by The International Cat Association (TICA, US-based), in 1989.  The breed has been accepted for championship competition by TICA, the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA, also US-based)[3] and the American Cat Fanciers Association (ACFA).[4][5] The breed is technically also sanctioned in the Cat Aficionado Association (CAA) of China, by virtue of the CAA having adopted all of ACFA's breed standards; it is unknown if any specimens are actually in China.  The breed is "recognized" (as existing), as both American Bobtail Longhair and American Bobtail Shorthair, in the Germany-based World Cat Federation (WCF),[6] but is not "accepted" for competition[6] and has no WCF breed standard.[7]
American Bobtails require two to three years to develop, slower than many domestic cat breeds.[1]
While the typically “bobcat-“ or “ocelot”-like spotted coat patterning is the most basal coloration seen on the breed, many other colors and patterns exist (both in long and shorthair varieties), including black, blue, brindle, brown, calico, chocolate, cinnamon, fawn, lilac, pied, red-and-cream, peach or orange tabby or tortoiseshell, all with or without varying amounts of all-white fur on the chest, neck, legs or underside.
American Bobtails are playful, social and some may be quite energetic, especially as kittens. [1] They are considered to be highly adaptable to new environments, making them suitable companions for travelers.[8] According to some sources, the American Bobtail is among the most “dog-like” of any cat breed, boldly greeting visitors to the home and never shying away from a potential opportunity to play, hunt or socialize. They have also been called  miniature “ocelots”, at least in terms of their climbing abilities, and enjoy exploring, jumping, and stalking birds and small animals (even through windows). Overall, it is not a “sleepy” or reserved breed, though it still readily comes to humans and other cats and animals for affection, including dogs.
--------------------------------------------------
Learn more about how Purina and Petfinder are making a difference together.
7 to 16 pounds
Various
13 to 18 years
no
The American Bobtail cat might look like a wild cat, but don’t let that fool you—they are fully domesticated sweet, loving, and smart cats that enjoy being with their owners. They are self-assured, outgoing, and adaptable cats that do well in most homes. They are not as chatty as other breeds but aren’t afraid to use their voices. Playful and full of energy, they will ask for your attention by meowing or jumping in your lap.
The American Bobtail cat has been in the U.S. since the 1960s but has only recently received attention. The first American Bobtail was a motel cat, found while a couple was on vacation. Yodie, as the cat was called, had a short tail, possibly from a genetic mutation. Once home with his new owners, he was crossed with a sealpoint Siamese Cat. The breed comes in all colors and looks feral but is fully domesticated.
Considered “dog-like” in their personalities, the American Bobtail cat is friendly and curious. They do well with families, first-time cat owners, active owners, and those who don’t mind a chatty cat. They bond strongly with their people and are highly adaptable cats. While not as into cat antics as other breeds, they can be frisky and playful. They get along well with other animals and are not shy around strangers.
American Bobtail cats have moderate exercise needs and appreciate playtime, especially with toys. They enjoy games like fetch and puzzles and could enjoy leash walks.
The American Bobtail cat doesn’t need more space than any other cat. They’ll appreciate cat-friendly decor such as cat trees, scratching posts, vertical play gyms, and catios, but are highly adaptable and can get by in small spaces.
Brushing an American Bobtail cat once a week is usually enough to ensure the cat’s coat stays healthy. They shed more than usual twice a year and might need more frequent brushing then.
Quick learners and playful students, the American Bobtail cat can be trained to do basic commands. Positive reinforcement works best. They like praise, so heap it on them!
Thanks to their relatively docile nature, sweet temperament, and friendliness, the American Bobtail Cat can be a good option for families, especially for first-time cat owners. They bond strongly with their families.
The cost of an American Bobtail from a breeder is significantly more than the cost of adopting one from a local shelter or rescue. The adoption fee usually covers additional items such as spaying or neutering, vaccines, and microchipping.
Learn more about feeding and caring for your American Bobtail on Purina.
A hair-raising 29% of black cats, more than any other color, are being given a second chance at a new life with great families. According to  research , black kittens and black cats are showing the healthiest adoption rates that rescue groups have seen in years.  &nbsp;  These positive adoption per
&nbsp; 

 In the wild, there are many big cats that actually enjoy being in the water. Tigers, leopards and lions all like to soak, most likely because their usual habitat is in a hot environment and it helps cool them off. Domestic cats may have evolved to dislike water because most breeds have
--------------------------------------------------
The American Bobtail is a distinctive and eye-catching cat breed known for their unique short tail, wild appearance, and friendly demeanor. With a well-muscled and athletic body, these cats exhibit a wild charm reminiscent of their supposed bobcat ancestry. The most prominent feature is their short, bobbed tail, which can vary in length and may have a kink, curve, or be straight. The breed’s coat comes in various colors and patterns, with a semi-long to short length, providing them with a luxurious and soft texture. American Bobtails have expressive almond-shaped eyes that can be of different colors, contributing to their captivating and engaging gaze.
In terms of temperament, American Bobtails are renowned for their intelligence, playfulness, and adaptability. These cats are known to form strong bonds with their human companions, displaying a gentle and affectionate nature. They are often good with children and other pets, making them an excellent choice for families. Despite their wild appearance, American Bobtails are generally easygoing, making them well-suited to various living environments. Their love for interactive play and their ability to learn tricks contribute to the overall charm of this breed, making them cherished and delightful companions for those seeking engaging feline friends.
When considering an American Bobtail kitten, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable American Bobtail kitten breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Bobtailed cats, the result of a natural genetic mutation that causes a shortened tail, have appeared in various places over the centuries, from Japan to the Isle of Man. Sometimes they get noticed by the right people, and voila! A new breed is born.
Such was the case with the American Bobtail, which descends from a short-tailed kitten acquired by John and Brenda Sanders during a vacation to Arizona. They named him Yodi, and he became the father of the breed in the swinging ‘60s when he had his way with the Sanders’ female, Mishi, once they arrived back home in Iowa. Yodi and Mishi’s kittens had short tails, too, a clue that the trait was caused by a dominant gene.
Family friend Mindy Shoultz, who’d had experience breeding Persians, partnered with Charlotte Bentley to develop the unusual cats into a breed. They bred the kittens to other cats with naturally short tails that were found in various places throughout the United States and Canada.  They selectively bred the cats to be big and sturdy with a wild look but a sweet temper. All of the cats used to develop the breed were non-pedigreed domestic shorthairs and longhairs.
Now, after 50 years, such outcrossing is no longer necessary because now the cats have pedigrees longer than their tails. The International Cat Association accepted the American Bobtail into its new breed category in 1989 and gave it full recognition in 2002. The American Bobtail is also recognized by the Cat Fanciers Association and the American Cat Fanciers Association.
The American Bobtail typically weighs 8 to 13 pounds.
Let’s say you love the Golden Retriever’s personality, but his size and energy level are a bit more than you can handle. American Bobtail lovers say you should take a look at their cat instead. He’s a lover with a heart of gold who is devoted to his people, follows them around, loves to play, walks nicely on a leash (after training, of course), and welcomes guests with a smile.
This is a smart cat who enjoys puzzle toys, learning tricks, and playing fetch. He isn’t as vocal as some breeds, but he communicates his pleasure with chirps, clicks and trills, as well as the standard purr and meow. The American Bobtail has an adaptable nature, so he’s a good traveler. Long-distance truckers and RVers find him to be an excellent companion.
The cats have also found a niche with some psychotherapists because of their loving and intuitive nature. That same adaptability and kindness makes him a good family companion and suited to a variety of lifestyles, from relaxed to rowdy.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. American Bobtails are generally healthy, but always keep an eye out for signs that your cat might be in distress or pain.
The American Bobtail’s coat doesn’t usually mat or tangle as long as you comb or brush it a couple of times a week. You may notice that the cat sheds more in the spring and fall, so it can be a good idea to groom him more frequently during those times. A bath is rarely necessary.
Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear. Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene.
It’s a good idea to keep an American Bobtail as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. American Bobtails who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
With his short tail, tufted ears and toes, and powerful body, the American Bobtail has a distinctively wild look—similar to that of a bobcat—but he’s a domestic cat through and through. He ranges in size from medium to large and matures slowly, taking up to three years to reach his full size.
Since this breed is distinguished by his short tail, it’s as good a place as any to begin a description of his looks. Each tail is unique. Most are 1 to 4 inches long, but they can be shorter or longer. The ideal bobtail is flexible and expressive, long enough to be visible above the back when the cat is alert, and may be straight with a fat pad at the end, slightly curved or kinked, or bumpy along the length of the tail.
Kittens are almost never completely tailless, as sometimes happens with the Manx. Some litters have kittens with full-length tails. They won’t be stars in the show ring, but they can be used in breeding programs. The noticeably athletic body is covered with shaggy fur in two lengths. The shorthaired American Bobtail actually has a medium-length double coat with hard outer hairs overlaying a soft, downy undercoat.
When the coat is a dilute color, a lynx point or a silver, the coat may have a softer texture. Longhaired Bobtails have a ruff around the neck and long hair on the britches (upper hind legs), belly and tail. On the face, the longhair may look as if he is sporting mutton chops. The fur comes in all colors and patterns. The eyes can be any color except odd (each eye a different color).
The social and laidback American Bobtail likes to play, so he’s a good choice for families with children. Always supervise younger children to make sure they don’t hurt the cat by pulling his fur or twisting his tail.
He is happy to live with other cats and cat-friendly dogs, too, thanks to his amiable disposition. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!








Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Ievgeniia Miroshnichenko, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 1, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The American Bobtail is a beloved breed with a unique, stubby tail. Although they are well-known for their bobbed tail, they are also popular due to their playful and loving personalities. Some American Bobtail enthusiasts refer to them as Golden Retrievers among cats since they have a puppy-like and affectionate nature. They are adored for their many excellent qualities, which we will discuss in more detail below.
Height:
10 inches
Weight:
11–20 pounds
Lifespan:
15–20 years
Colors:
Black, brown, cinnamon, chocolate, blue, orange, white, gray, silver, lilac
Suitable for:
Families with children, seniors, multi-pet households, adventurous owners, first-time cat owners
Temperament:
Intelligent, active, affectionate, bold
The American Bobtail has a slightly rugged appearance. Their thick double coats are built to be rain-resistant, and their eyes are often described as “hunter-like.” They come in all sorts of colors and have large, deep-set eyes. However, the easiest way to identify the American Bobtail is by their short and stubby tail.
Despite their wildcat appearance, the American Bobtail is a charming companion, always eager to curl up in your lap and snuggle. They are the ideal companion for families and households with other animals due to their tolerant and friendly disposition.

Compared to other breeds, the American Bobtail is uncommon, and finding one for your family may prove to be a challenge. You’re unlikely to find a purebred American Bobtail at your local animal shelter; however, it is not a bad idea to check there first. If the shelter has an American Bobtail in need of a loving family, you could be the perfect candidate.
While spotting an American Bobtail at the animal shelter is somewhat unlikely, bringing one home is far from impossible. You can browse your local pet store to see if they have any American Bobtail kittens looking for a new home.
When shopping at pet stores, be aware of the conditions that the animals are kept in. If the animals appear sickly, injured, or forced into cramped conditions, you should not support that pet store. Another way to find your American Bobtail is through a breeder.
When researching breeders, take your time to investigate each option thoroughly. You must find a breeder that is knowledgeable, ethical, and responsible. Irresponsible breeders can produce American Bobtail litters that are prone to genetic conditions. If the breeder you are looking into appears questionable for any reason, do not hesitate to walk away and search elsewhere.

The American Bobtail’s temperament makes them an ideal pet. They are lively, playful, and clever. They also love playing with their family members, whether they are adults, children, cats, or dogs. As a frisky, intelligent cat, the American Bobtail enjoys a good mental challenge.
In addition to your regular stock of cat toys, it is advised that you provide a good rotation of puzzle toys for your American Bobtail. Rotate them frequently so your cat cannot get too accustomed to the first puzzle before moving on to the next, ensuring their mind is constantly busy. Without proper enrichment, your American Bobtail can get into mischief to stave off boredom.
American Bobtails are praised for being highly adaptable. They can thrive in large estates, small apartments, huge families, and small households. As long as their needs are met, their level-headedness will allow them to adjust to any scenario. This makes them excellent travel companions for more adventurous types.
They are not especially vocal cats but chirp or meow when they want your attention. American Bobtail owners will often find their cats following them around as they complete household chores since they love to socialize with their favorite humans. At the same time, they aren’t overly needy or demanding. While they love to be around their families, they also have moments of independence.
Another fantastic quality of the American Bobtail is their remarkable sense of empathy. They can quickly become attuned to your emotions and attempt to provide support and affection when you need it. For this reason and more, the American Bobtail is a truly exceptional companion.
The American Bobtail is a perfect family cat. Their affectionate nature and lively disposition make them a great friend to all sorts of cat owners. No matter your age, the American Bobtail will love to spend time with you; they will sit in the laps of seniors or run around and play with children.
One thing that American Bobtail owners should be aware of is that the American Bobtail can be too clever for their own good, sometimes. They’re known to escape closed rooms and locked cages, so ensure you have extra security to prevent your American Bobtail from getting into places they shouldn’t.
If you have multiple pets in the home, the American Bobtail is an excellent addition to the mix. Regardless of whether you have a cat or a dog, the American Bobtail will treat them equally. As long as all parties are properly introduced and socialized, the American Bobtail will become fast friends with other four-legged creatures.
However, smaller animals may not be the best roommates for the American Bobtail. This includes hamsters, birds, and mice. The reason is the American Bobtail’s prey drive. Your American Bobtail may view smaller creatures as meals, causing them to chase (and possibly injure) a tiny pet.

While the American Bobtail’s personality makes them an ideal pet, there is more to owning this cat than you think. Potential American Bobtail owners should also be aware of the breed’s care needs to ensure they can provide the best quality of life possible for their new cat.
High-quality meals are a staple of the American Bobtail’s good health. Without nutritious food, your cat may be more susceptible to health conditions. Therefore, cat owners should seek out cat foods certified by the Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) to ensure they feed their pets a well-rounded diet.
Obesity is a common issue among cats and is even more prevalent in the American Bobtail. You should carefully monitor your American Bobtail’s food intake to ensure that they are not overeating.
Convincing the American Bobtail to exercise shouldn’t be difficult since they’re naturally active. Since American Bobtails are playful and social, engaging your cat in regularly scheduled playtime is a great way to keep them moving.
When you are away from the house, interactive toys, cat trees, and scratching posts can provide exercise for your American Bobtail. Leave plenty of toys around the house when you are away so your American Bobtail can keep themselves busy until you return.
The American Bobtail is an intelligent breed and easy to train. Many first-time cat owners enjoy the American Bobtail because they are quick to learn and not difficult to teach. They’re highly empathetic and can pick up on your emotional cues.
It is crucial not to allow yourself to become visibly frustrated or upset during training if your cat is having a hard time learning something new. This may cause your American Bobtail to dislike training, which will only make the process more challenging.
Similarly, harsh correction methods such as yelling and punishments should never be used. Not only are they ineffective, but they are also counterproductive as they discourage your cat from trying to learn. These methods can also damage the bond that you have built with your cat. Instead, focus on reward-based training and provide praise and treats when they do something correctly.
The American Bobtail has a double coat, so you must brush it regularly to minimize shedding. A few times per week is usually sufficient. During the shedding season, you need to brush their coat more often.
In addition to maintaining your cat’s coat, you should also care for their ears, teeth, and nails. Their ears should be checked and cleaned once or twice monthly, and their teeth should be brushed weekly. As for their nails, trim them around every month.
The American Bobtail is a fairly healthy cat, but like any breed, they are prone to certain conditions. According to the ASPCA, two of the most common health issues the breed experiences are obesity and diabetes.
Since these conditions can both be linked to diet and weight management, American Bobtail owners must pay close attention to their cats’ diets. Another common issue to watch out for is ear infections.
Typically, male American Bobtails are larger than females. If you’re looking for a smaller cat, it is recommended that you search for a female American Bobtail.

Due to the American Bobtail’s empathetic nature, the breed is becoming a popular therapy animal. Their sensitivity to human emotions makes them an excellent candidate for soothing people in need.
Unlike other breeds, the American Bobtail doesn’t have any pedigreed cats in their ancestry. Once, breeders even used feral cats when breeding the American Bobtail!
Other Bobtail breeds exist in the world, such as the Asian Bobtail. However, they aren’t related. As strange as it may sound, the gene that contributes to the American Bobtail’s short tail is not the same as the gene that the Asian Bobtail has.

The American Bobtail is a beloved breed with countless extraordinary qualities. They are playful, affectionate, and empathetic, making them remarkable companions. Any family dynamic, from single households to families with children, can benefit from the American Bobtail’s presence. With their adaptable nature and friendliness toward other animals, you can house the American Bobtail with plenty of other cats and dogs.
Owners of the American Bobtail should be aware of their cat’s predisposition to obesity and diabetes. Having a close relationship with a trusted vet will help you stay on top of your American Bobtail’s health to ensure they live the best life possible. Remember, owning a cat isn’t just about what they can give you; it’s also about what you can give in return. With the American Bobtail, there are abundant benefits to giving and receiving.
Featured Image Credit: Ievgeniia Miroshnichenko, Shyutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Cats are Jordyn’s passion. Whenever she has the opportunity she loves to learn about animals and share her knowledge with everyone. She is devoted to her sassy tabby cat named Jack and works hard to buy him his favorite treats and toys. Discovering new ways to better care for her cat is always on her to-do list, and she is eager to help pet parents everywhere. In Jordyn's spare time, she loves to write, read, and take long walks. She has a creative spirit, which often helps her to come up with funny cat names.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
