Cat Breeds
The American curl cat gets its name from its ears, which curl backward, creating a unique shell-like shape. Just in case you're wondering whether this breed shares any genetics with the Scottish fold, the answer is no. Both breeds are distinct, with different characteristics.
Far more sociable than the average cat, these friendly felines like to greet their families at the door and follow them around the house. They like children and they have a tendency to get along well with other pets.
American curl cats come in every color and pattern imaginable, in both long and shorthair varieties. They have very little undercoat, and their topcoats tend to feel very soft and silky.
In addition to their signature ear shape, the American curl cat is known for having a long, luxurious tail.
As you might imagine, American curl cats with very curly ears are often reserved as show cats. Breeders tend to offer cats that have a less pronounced curve to their ear structure as pets.
These cats do not have any special nutritional needs. We recommend feeding your American curl cat a high-quality, meat-based diet. Even though these kitties are extraordinarily sweet and friendly, they are still obligate carnivores!
Just like all other cats, the American curl does a pretty good job of grooming itself. Treat them to a light brushing a few times per week, regular nail trims, and ear cleaning when necessary.
American curl cats are playful and appreciate interactive games with their families. These cats like to play fetch and will quickly learn how to carry small balls, toys, and pieces of crumpled up paper.
The American curl may have a unique appearance, but the breed has another common trait that links them to other felines: They love to climb and they need to scratch. Your American curl cat will appreciate a multilevel cat tree, a window perch, and a selection of toys to play with.
Since these cats want to be wherever their families are, you may have to initiate play to prevent them from having too much couch time. Don't worry – it'll be just as much fun for you as it is for them!
As you might imagine, these American curl cats have some special needs when it comes to caring for their ears. The lower portion of the ear cartilage is very stiff and stable, but the upper portion of the ear is thin and fragile. You'll need to use a light touch when clearing away any wax. A gentle ear cleaning solution can help.
In addition, pet parents should watch for signs of ear infection.
American curl cats are generally healthy and have a lifespan that extends to an average of approximately 15 years.
All American curl cats can trace their heritage back to a stray, long-haired black female cat that ultimately found a home with a Lakewood, California family in 1981. They named the cat Shulamith and when she gave birth to a litter of kittens six months later, they had unique curled ears like their mother's.
Selective breeding began two years later, in 1983. It was discovered that the ear curling gene that gives these cats their distinct appearance is autosomal dominant, meaning any cat with even a single copy of the gene will have the curled ear trait.
During initial development of the American curl cat breed, feline geneticist Roy Robinson analyzed all crosses and found no defects. This breed has been an important one ever since then, thanks to its good health, its unique appearance, and its outstanding, friendly personality.
American curl kittens are born with straight ears. The ears begin to curl back at about 3 to 5 days of age. They remain curled for several weeks and they don't completely unfurl into their final shape until the kitten reaches about 16 weeks of age.
American curls are nicknamed the "Peter Pan of cats" thanks to their tendency to retain kittenish behaviors throughout their lives.
American curl cats form strong bonds with their families, often going to great lengths to be in the middle of everything. These cats are unusual in that they're simply not content to find a quiet place away from all the action! If you're looking for a cat that enjoys your companionship, this may be the breed for you.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The American Curl, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed American Curl or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase an American Curl, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
American Curl cats cost between $1,000 - $2,000.
American Curl cats tend to be small in size. A fully grown American Curl cat might weigh between 5-10 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8"-10" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for American Curl is 11-15 years.
American Curl are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
I love kitten.
They are an absolute joy. I rescued 2 from a shelter in NJ. Never had heard of them. Had to look them up on the internet. My male has perfect Siamese coloring and points, my female has snowshoe Siamese coloring. and they both have beautiful blue eyes. They are very playful and curious about everything. They follow me around the house like puppies. I am so in love with them. I would recommend the breed to anyone looking for a companion kitty.
My 2 1/2 yr old purebred  neutered male American Curl doesn’t have the curl- which I prefer and because of that was only 400$  Purchased from breeder at the San Diego Cat Show in Del Mar CA.  He is cream and rust color,  green eyes, very affectionate , long  soft hair- not as long as a Himalayan. 11.5 lbs.  very playful. Sometimes fetches. Likes to push little things off of counters.  Sheds a lot though.  Afraid of thunder and fireworks.   Very spoiled.
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your cat's connection to this breed and 20 others
The American Curl is an intelligent, loyal, and loving kitty. Affectionately known as the "Peter Pan" of cats, they are known to retain their kitten energy well into their senior years. They often have tufted tails and sport ears with an elegant backwards curl, said to resemble the fanned and tufted ear features of the Lynx.
The American Curl is a medium-sized cat with a rectangluar body, walnut-shaped eyes, and a silky coat that comes in both shorthair and longhair varieties in many colors and patterns. Their ears are actually straight when they are born and only begin to curl—first into a tight "rosebud" within three to five days—then resting into their final backwards curled position around 16 weeks of age.
The American Curl pedigree breed traces back to a cat named "Shulamith", a stray longhaired female who endeared herself to Grace and Joe Ruga of Lakewood, California in 1981. This black-coated beauty gave birth to kittens that developed curled ears that are now the signature of the American Curl breed. Selective breeding picked up speed two years later in 1983 to develop a show-quality breed that was recognized by The International Cat Association (TICA) in 1987. Roy Robinson, the same geneticist that performed the first analysis of American Wirehair fur to distinguish it from Cornish and Devon Rex cat breeds coat genetics, studied American Curl ears and confirmed that the gene responsible for the breed's signature ears was autosomal dominant, which means that any offspring with one copy of the gene from a parent will display the curled ear trait.
The American Curl is a sweet, people-oriented cat that is always interested in what you're doing. They can be vocal at times, and love to follow you around the house. They are curious and love to explore, so providing high areas for climbing and jumping and other opportunities for play will go a long way toward keeping your American Curl kitty happy and engaged.
The American Curl is a generally healthy breed, though they can be prone to ear infections so regular ear care is a good idea. As with all cat breeds, oral health is very important, so it's important to establish both at-home brushing routines in addition to taking them to your veterinarian for regular wellness exams and professional dental cleanings.
The American Curl is known as the "Peter Pan" of cats. These energetic beauties typically stay kitten-like into their older years.
A very popular kitty. The American Curl is extremely popular, and currently holds the rank of the 27th most popular cat breed in the United States.
The International Cat Association (TICA) “Introduction to the American Curl”
Cat Fanciers' Association "About the American Curl"
Spruce Pets: American Curl Cat Breed Profile, Characteristics & Care
FETCH by WebMD "What to Know About American Curls"
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
The American Curl is a cat characterised by its unusual ears, which curl back from the face toward the center of the back of the skull. The breed originated in Lakewood, California, due to a spontaneous mutation.[1]
The first American Curls appeared as strays on the doorstep of the Rugas in Lakewood, California in June 1981. The black female, named Shulamith, gave birth to a litter of cats with the same curled ears, and so became the ancestor of all American Curls today.[2][3] In 1986, an American Curl was exhibited at a cat show for the first time, and in 1992, the longhaired American Curl was given championship status by The International Cat Association (TICA). In 1999, the American Curl became the first breed admitted to the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) Championship Class with both longhair and shorthair divisions.[4]
The American Curl is a medium-sized cat 5–10 lb (2.3–4.5 kg), and does not reach maturity until 2–3 years of age. Females should be between 5–8 lb (2.3–3.6 kg) and males 7–10 lb (3.2–4.5 kg).[3]
American Curl kittens are born with straight ears, which begin to curl within forty-eight hours. After four months, their ears will not curl any longer, and should be hard and stiff to the touch at the base of the ear with flexible tips. A pet-quality American Curl may have almost straight ears, but showcats must have ears that curl in an arc between 90 and 180 degrees. A 90 degrees is preferable, but cats will be disqualified if their ears touch the back of their skulls.
Both longhaired and shorthaired American Curls have soft, silky coats which lie flat against their bodies. They require little grooming and enjoy spending time with their owners and generally get along well with other animals and people who aren't their owners.
The American Curl, while still an uncommon breed, is found across the world in the United States, Spain, France, Japan, Russia, and many other countries.
Various matings between cats with curled ears and cats without curled ears revealed a dominant inheritance of the curl gene. Sex-linked distribution was not found. The mutant gene was designated as curl and is symbolized by Cu.[1] Another mutation of the ear pinna was found in Scottish Fold cats. In these cats both heterozygous and homozygous (FdFd) cats, animals suffer from osteochondrodysplasia.[5] The question arises if homozygous curls (CuCu) could also be affected by cartilage formation defects and bone abnormalities. However, observations of a CuCu cat over two years showed no sign of anomaly.[1]
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Linn Currie, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 2, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click to Skip Ahead
Most people agree that all cats have physical features that make them so loved. However, one feature that often draws people in is the ears. The American Curl Cat is one such breed. While their ears are definitely a standout feature, people are also drawn to them because of their affectionate and curious nature. Sometimes dubbed the “Peter Pan” of cats because of their lasting kitten-like playfulness, the American Curl can make an excellent addition to most families.
Length:
18–20 inches
Weight:
5–12 pounds
Lifespan:
12–16 years
Colors:
Almost any color, including tortoiseshell and patched tabby varieties
Suitable for:
Anyone looking for a warm and friendly indoor-only cat
Temperament:
A people-loving cat that gets on well with children but may not like the company of other cats
The most distinctive feature of the American Curl cat breed is their unique, curly ears which are turned back towards the back of their skulls.
The breed is relatively new and actually came about as a mutation in a cat that was born in Lakewood, California. Shulamith was a black cat with long, silky hair and ears that curled backward in a style that had never before been seen in domestic cats. Shulamith had four kittens with an unknown father, two of whom were born with curly ears like their mother. Following a consultation with a local geneticist, it was discovered that the curly ear feature was actually a mutation and also was a dominant gene. From 1983, cat fanciers began deliberately breeding curly ear cats, and the new breed was named the American Curl in 1986.
Today, the breed has become popular throughout the United States and has been exported to many other countries around the world.

Being a relatively new breed, the American Curl still has a somewhat small gene pool, and to ensure genetic diversity within the breed, responsible breeders often cross their cats with straight-eared cats.
If you are looking to purchase an American Curl kitten, it is vitally important that you spend some time researching and picking a respectable and responsible breeder. Unfortunately, the pet industry is often targeted by unscrupulous groups who are looking to make as much quick money as possible, and such groups will often breed animals that are closely related to each other to save money. Such behavior can result in cats being born with genetic disorders and can also negatively impact the genetic diversity of the breed.

The American Curls’ personality makes them a playful and affectionate breed that is known to maintain high levels of activity and a love of play well into their adult lives. Not at all aloof or standoffish, the breed loves spending time with their owners and will happily follow them from room to room and curl up on their lap, or by their side, whenever they need a nap.
These energetic, people-loving cats also love children and will go so far as to seek them out within the house to spend some time with them.
They are not overly talkative or bossy, and their constant friendly and playful nature has led many people to describe their temperament to be more dog-like than that of a cat.
Yes, the American Curl cat breed is fantastic for families. With all their personality and energy, they will happily involve themselves in anything that is going on around the family home. They are not at all aloof and will often approach and make themselves known to any guests who come by.
They are not a demanding breed, and, unlike some other cats, they won’t necessarily think that you’re their pet and are there to constantly serve them.
If brought up with other pets, the American Curl can cope quite well, but they don’t always like another cat moving in on their territory. In fact, they will usually more readily accept a new puppy joining the household than a new cat.

Cats can be quite fussy about the food that they eat, and while they aren’t usually overly picky eaters, you may find that your American Curl will favor some cat foods over others. There are quite literally hundreds of different brands, types, and flavors of commercial cat foods. Provided you choose a cat food made from high-quality ingredients, and that has been formulated to provide your cat with a complete and well-balanced diet, you can’t really go wrong.
The one thing to be careful of, though, is that there are quite a number of fancy gourmet cat foods on the market that sound perfect for a cat but are, in fact, only formulated to be cat food supplements. You should never feed your cat a complete diet of cat food supplements, no matter how scrumptious you think they look, as cats need several essential vitamins and minerals in their diet. Without them, they will become quite ill.
Unlike dogs, cats don’t need structured exercise each day, but what they do need is a few inexpensive cat toys and an area in which they can romp about and play. This is particularly the case with the American Curl, who will want to spend more time playing than your average cat.
Remember, too, that, unlike some other cat breeds, the American Curl will want to maintain an active lifestyle up until quite an old age. Long after other cat breeds have retired to a life of sunning themselves on the windowsill all day, these Peter Pans of the cat world will still be darting around the house like energetic kittens.
Of course, even an indoor cat will enjoy a bit of time outside on the grass now and then, and you may want to consider purchasing a lead and harness so that you can exercise your cat out in your yard or communal garden now and then without them running off.
The American Curl cat breed is actually quite responsive to training and can be taught a few tricks that more than a few dog breeds struggle with. Most people wouldn’t think of teaching their cat to play fetch. But not only can these intelligent felines learn the game, chances are they’ll actually enjoy playing it.
You can also teach them some other useful things, such as how to open doors on your cupboards and between rooms. Just be careful if you do, as you might come home and find that your cat has opened one or two of your kitchen cupboards and emptied the contents out onto the floor.
The amount of grooming that your American Curl will require is likely to vary depending upon whether you have a short or long-haired cat.
A short-haired American Curl needs very little grooming whereas a long-haired cat will require weekly brushing to keep their coat looking its best. In addition to brushing, like all cats, your American Curl should have their teeth brushed regularly and will also need their nails trimmed every couple of weeks.
You should also check your cat’s ears regularly to ensure that they are clean and free of any foreign material. Just remember to be gentle with their ears as you don’t want to damage the cartilage.
American Curls are generally very healthy cats; however, like all cats, there are a few health conditions that they can be susceptible to. These include:
Whether you get a male or female cat, unless you plan on breeding from them, we strongly recommend that you have your pet neutered or spayed. Intact cats, whether male or female, will have some behaviors that may make them difficult to manage and keep inside.
Intact male cats, in particular, have a strong desire to reproduce and have been known to break through window and door screens to get out. Female cats, when in heat, will also have a very strong desire to break out. Whole female cats will also vocally wail while in heat, which can quickly become annoying.
Neutered and spayed cats, whether male or female, on the other hand, will not have a desire to roam and can easily be managed indoors. They will also generally be more playful and friendly towards other cats and won’t wail.
Thus, assuming you intend to neuter or spay your cat, we recommend picking a new kitten based on personality rather than sex, as once they have been desexed, most of the negative behaviors associated with breeding will be removed.

The American Curl has an undeserved reputation on some online forums as being quite mean. However, this unwarranted label actually couldn’t be further from the truth. They are very active cats that enjoy playing, but they’re actually quite friendly towards people and, unlike some other breeds, are also very tolerant of children.
The American Curl gets its name from the shape of its ears, which curl back towards the back of its skull, but they aren’t born with ears that curl this way. When they are born, their ears sit forward like any other cat, and it’s not until they are about 10 days old that their ears form their curly shape. When the kitten reaches 5 months old, the cartilage in their ears hardens, and their ears will remain curled, with the amount of curl varying from cat to cat, anywhere between 90 and 180 degrees.
In 1993, the American Curl became the first cat breed to be accepted by the Cat Fanciers’ Association as a single Champion Class breed with two coat lengths—long and short.

The American Curl is a friendly, playful, and affectionate cat, and thanks to their unique curled ears, they also have a somewhat exotic look. Overall the breed has a lovely personality, and these cats, while a little on the expensive side, can be great pets for families or individuals. They may also be a great choice for a first-time cat owner.
As with all cats, though, you need to remember that your pet will likely be with you for the next 15 years, and you need to be sure you can commit to raising and caring for them for their whole life before you purchase a kitten.
See also:
Featured Image Credit: Linn Currie, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The American Curl is well known for its unusual shaped ears and for being one of the youngest cat breeds.
It developed in California. The first of these cats appeared to have been strays that arrived in California in 1981. The black female’s name was Shulamith, and she gave birth to a litter with the same curled ears, and was the ancestor of the American Curls of today.
Appearing in a cat show in 1992 for the first time, the longhaired American Curl was then given championship status by TICA and it was also admitted to the Cat Fanciers Association’s championship class in the long- and shorthaired divisions.
The American Curl is a medium-sized cat weighing roughly 2.3–4.5kg. Its a cat that stands between 21 and 27cm in height.
It’s also a cat that takes a fairly long time to mature, reaching maturity about 2 or 3 years of age. The most distinctive feature of this cat is its unusual ears that curl backward as opposed to standing up like most other cats.  At birth the ears are straight but they gradually start curling back, staying in a tight bud position.
The American Curl's coat is soft and silky and doesn’t require too much grooming. The fur comes in colors such as grey, white, apricot, black, and the coat can be a solid color or in a host of different patterns such as bi-color, triple-color, tabby, ticking and others.
The head is round, the eyes of the cat are large, giving the cat an alert, friendly look. The eyes can be many different colors from blue to green, amber, copper, hazel, and yellow.
The American Curl Cat loves his human family and gets on well with children too. He is an adaptable cat, settling into different lifestyles. You’ve got to watch him around small children who might manhandle him and pull his sensitive ears.
Nonetheless, he is sociable and loving. He is an intelligent cat, being active and alert and will even follow you around to see what you’re doing that he can be involved in too. He isn’t a particularly talkative breed but he loves to play and can even learn to fetch a smallish ball.
You’ll find your American Curl to be a friendly, loving cat that will easily bond with his human family. They’re adaptable cats and will happily adjust to your lifestyle.
Despite their affection, however, American Curls aren't the type of cats to want to be pampered and petted - they are quite happy just to sit next to their owner and relax, or play with their toys.
Because American Curls are highly adaptable, they're suitable for a number of different home types, and homes with other pets or children, making you a splendid feline pet and companion.
This is a healthy breed of cat that with good care can reach 9 – 15 years of age.
You need to be careful with their ears – perhaps damaging the cartilage if you brush him too hard.
Like many cats, the Curl is susceptible to ear issues so always be sure to check and clean your cat’s ears weekly.
The Curl’s coat can be either short or long, but with a gentle brushing, the coat can be well maintained. The shorthaired variety sheds a bit more during the year than the longhaired variety and this is why grooming and brushing becomes necessary.
You can brush your cat’s teeth to avoid periodontal disease.
Trim your cat’s nails every other week if they don’t wear down naturally.
Check inside- and outside the cat’s ears for parasites and dirt. The cat’s ears have a unique shape and they may well be born with narrowed ear canals that can trap dirt and wax and this results in ear infections.
Like all cats breeds, your lean, muscular American Curl can be susceptible to obesity and heart disease. Speak to your vet about a special cat food for your feline friend as cat food is specially formulated to deliver the exact level of natural vitamins, minerals, fiber and antioxidants needed. Understand the amount of food your Curl requires by checking out the feeding instructions on the food labels. Always talk to your vet if you're not sure how much and what you should feed your cat.
Remember, that if you don’t want to do these grooming routines for your cat for fear of hurting him or not doing it properly, the vet or your local pet groomer will do it for you.
Make sure to provide your intelligent American Curl with toys and exercise. You can buy toys and games that will challenge his mental and physical abilities.
--------------------------------------------------
