🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
Appenzeller Sennenhunds are generally healthy dogs, but like all breeds, genetic screening is recommended. Life expectancy is typically 13 to 15 years.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is an active and highly intelligent breed. They are often described as fearless, energetic, and self-confident. Given their herding heritage, they are also known to be quick learners, independent thinkers, and have an inherent drive to work. This makes them excellent candidates for obedience, agility, and herding events.They tend to form strong bonds with their family and can be protective, which means they are naturally wary of strangers and can be excellent watchdogs. Their high energy levels require regular physical exercise and mental stimulation, otherwise, they can become bored and potentially destructive. They are usually good with children and other pets, especially when socialized early.As they were bred for working, the Appenzeller Sennenhund is best suited for a home where they have lots of space to run and work. Without the proper outlet for their energy, these dogs can become frustrated and develop behavioral problems.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund Club was established in 1906, with the help of Swiss Cattle Dog enthusiast Professor Dr. Albert Heim, to promote and preserve the breed.The word Sennenhund loosely translates to "dairy farmer's dog."
https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/appenzeller-sennenhund/  https://www.ukcdogs.com/appenzeller  https://www.fci.be/Nomenclature/Standards/046g02-en.pdf
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Our online vet service is live
Click Below to Skip Ahead
When you see the name Appenzeller Sennenhund you may be wondering, is that really the name of a dog breed? Yes, it is! Although the Appenzeller Sennenhund is a less common breed in this country, they have a long history in Europe.
Height
19 – 22 inches
Weight
48 – 70 pounds
Lifespan
12 – 15 years
Colors
Black, brown, and white
Suitable for
Experienced dog owners with active lifestyles, looking for an intelligent dog who needs a job to do
Temperament
Agile, versatile, lively, intelligent, hard-working, watchful
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is a hard-working, very energetic herding breed that loves to join in long hikes or run across acres of farmland as a working dog. While not always a good fit for every lifestyle, the Appenzeller Sennenhund can be a friendly, protective member of the family with proper training and plenty of exercise. Unsure if the Appenzeller Sennenhund is the breed for you? Keep reading to learn more about this active breed and find out if one is a good choice for your family!
Appenzeller Sennenhund CharacteristicsEnergy+ High-energy dogs will need a lot of mental and physical stimulation to stay happy and healthy, while low-energy dogs require minimal physical activity. It’s important when choosing a dog to make sure their energy levels match your lifestyle or vice versa. Trainability+ Easy-to-train dogs are more skilled at learning prompts and actions quickly with minimal training. Dogs that are harder to train will require a bit more patience and practice. Health+ Some breeds, due to their size or their breeds potential genetic health issues, have shorter lifespans than others. Proper exercise, nutrition, and hygiene also play an important role in the lifespan of your pet. Lifespan+ Some dog breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems, and some more than others. This doesn’t mean that every dog will have these issues, but they have an increased risk, so it’s important to understand and prepare for any additional needs they may require. Sociability+ Some dog breeds are more social than others, both towards humans and other dogs. More social dogs have a tendency to run up to strangers for pets and scratches, while less social dogs shy away and are more cautious, even potentially aggressive. No matter the breed, it’s important to socialize your dog and expose them to lots of different situations.

Appenzeller Sennenhunds is still a somewhat rare breed in the United States. This can make it both difficult and expensive to find a puppy. With a limited amount of Appenzeller Sennenhunds to be found in the US, it’s possible you will need to expand your search to international breeders. Keep in mind that purchasing from a breeder in another country will add extra costs including health certifications and shipping. Because there are so few Appenzellers around, your chances of finding one to adopt rather than purchase are pretty slim. However, if you are patient and committed to rescuing a dog, you can certainly try to go this route.
When you have an Appenzeller Sennenhund with you, you can expect to have an energetic furry friend running around your home, wanting to be with their owners. They love to play and are easily trainable dogs.
Appenzeller Sennenhunds are very intelligent dogs. They are also extremely active and prone to being stubborn which can make them challenging to train. Appenzellers bond very closely with their families and take on the role of a protective guardian with ease. Their protective nature makes them suspicious of people they don’t know, a tendency that makes for a good watchdog but also requires diligent socialization.
Appenzeller Sennenhunds are a good choice for active families who share their high-energy personalities. They do well with children, although they should be socialized with kids at a young age. As with many herding breeds, Appenzellers may be tempted to try and “herd” running children as they were bred to do with farm animals. Herding cattle involved a certain amount of nipping at heels, behavior that will be neither welcomed nor tolerated when it comes to children!
Because they bond so tightly with their families, Appenzellers will want to be included in family life. Because their energy levels are so high, families who prefer to stay active will be the best match for these dogs. Appenzellers are a breed best left to experienced, rather than first-time dog owners since they can be a challenge to train and to keep busy and out of trouble. Families looking for a more “hands-off” dog-owning experience should not consider an Appenzeller Sennenhund.
Bred as working farm dogs, Appenzeller Sennenhunds usually get along well with a variety of other animals. They do well with other dogs and cats although they should be socialized with them early for the most harmonious relationships. And should you happen to actually live on a farm, Appenzellers will fit right in with cows, goats, sheep, and other livestock. They will likely try to follow their instincts and herd the livestock, which may not be appreciated by the cows!

If you are intrigued by what you’ve read so far about the Appenzeller Sennenhund, you might be considering making one a part of your family. If so, you will want to find out as much as you can about how to properly care for this breed. Here is some information you may find helpful when deciding whether an Appenzeller Sennenhund would be a good fit for your lifestyle.
Appenzeller Sennenhunds don’t usually require specialized diets. They should do well on any high-quality dog food whether you choose to buy a commercial diet or prefer to cook homemade meals for your dog. If you prepare homemade food for your dog, be sure to check with your veterinarian to make sure it contains all the essential nutrients and is properly balanced.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund breed is prone to getting overweight. For this reason, you will want to monitor your dog’s weight and food intake to make sure they stay in a healthy weight range. One way you can do this is to make sure your dog gets the proper food for their developmental stage. Puppy, adult, and senior dogs all have different nutritional requirements, and feeding the right food will help ensure they stay healthy.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is an extremely energetic breed. They were originally bred to work and run on farms all day and their exercise requirements reflect that heritage. If you live in an apartment or a crowded city, it may be tough to get the Appenzeller as much exercise as they need. An effort must be made to get the Appenzeller Sennenhund vigorous daily exercise unless you live somewhere with a lot of space for them to roam and run. Another thing to keep in mind is that Appenzellers will not do well if they spend a lot of time kenneled or crated due to their energy level and desire to be included in family life.
Although they are very intelligent, Appenzeller Sennenhunds can be a challenge to train. Getting an early start with puppy training and socialization is very important for these dogs. As already discussed, Appenzellers are protective and suspicious of strangers by nature. Early socialization helps them learn to balance these instincts and behave appropriately around unfamiliar people and animals.
Appenzellers need firmness and consistency in their training. They can be stubborn but do not tolerate harsh training methods, which are never recommended for any dog anyway. Appenzellers will respond best to respectful, strong leadership. When trained and socialized properly, they are reliable and loving pets, even if they don’t slow down long enough to show it!
Because of their intelligence and athleticism, Appenzellers are capable of participating in dog sports like agility and obedience competitions.  Obviously, they are also excellent herders and can be trained to pull carts as well.
Appenzeller Sennenhunds are a double-coated breed, meaning they have both a thick topcoat and a dense undercoat which they shed regularly. If you are looking for a non-shedding breed, Appenzellers are not the dogs for you. Weekly brushing is recommended to keep their coats healthy and help control the shedding.
Besides the weekly brushing, Appenzellers don’t require much special grooming. Like all dogs, they should have their nails trimmed and their teeth brushed regularly. If your Appenzeller spends a lot of time outdoors, make sure to check them over routinely for ticks and burrs and keep their ears clean.
Perhaps because they are a less common breed, Appenzeller Sennenhunds are generally healthy dogs overall with a longer than usual average lifespan for their size.
Minor Conditions:
Serious Conditions:
Now you’ve done your research and you think the Appenzeller Sennenhund may be the right breed for you. Now should you get a male or a female dog? Is there a difference between them? Well, male Appenzeller Sennenhunds tend to be a bit larger than females. Otherwise, there are not a lot of reported breed-specific differences between the sexes.
As a general rule, male dogs tend to be a bit more energetic and dominant than female dogs. Then, of course, there is the issue of marking, which male dogs are more prone to do. Neutering the male dog can help with both marking and dominant behavior. With female dogs, you will have to deal with them going into heat every 6 months or so, although, having your female spayed will also eliminate this issue.
In the end, the decision of whether to get a male or female Appenzeller will likely come down to your own personal preference for one versus the other.

This breed was developed as a herding and working dog, making this the perfect name for them. Even today, Appenzeller Sennenhunds are still used as working farm dogs and excel at this job.
Appenzeller Sennenhunds are part of a group of breeds dubbed the Swiss Mountain Dogs. They are the smallest of the breeds in this group. The other breeds in the group are the Entlebucher Mountain Dog, the Greater Swiss Mountain Dog, and the Bernese Mountain Dog.
Most of us think of giant Saint Bernards with barrels around their necks when picturing Alpine rescue dogs but they aren’t the only breed on mountain rescue duty. Reliable, hard-working Appenzeller Sennenhunds can be found on rescue patrol as well.

If you’re looking for an energetic companion, the Appenzeller Sennenhund may just be the breed to fill that role. Make sure you are prepared for some of the more challenging aspects of their personality and are ready to devote plenty of time to training and socialization. You may also have to spend a bit more time finding a reputable Appenzeller breeder due to their relative scarcity in this country. If you really feel this is the breed for you, however, the time and effort will certainly be worth it in the end!
See Also:
Featured Image Credit: Vincent Scherer, Shutterstock
Share
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve PangoVet for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

No stressful travel
Personalized advice
Read more
We are here to help. Simply schedule an appointment by clicking on the button below.
5.0
At PangoVet, we care about you, your pet, and the bond that makes them family. We are here to keep them happy and healthy.
+1 (530) 453-0360[email protected]
2999 Douglas Blvd., Suite 180M, Roseville, CA 95661 United States
Warning: If your pet has suffered a sudden trauma or is experiencing any life-threatening signs, such as breathing difficulties, bleeding, or bloating, don’t waste valuable time and take them to the nearest emergency clinic.
Copyright © 2025 PangoVet. All rights reserved.
Didn't find what you need? Use the search!
Close the search
--------------------------------------------------
Collection of all the general dog breed info about Appenzeller Sennenhund so you can get to know the breed more.
Of course, they may be more popular in some countries, and inbreeding may occur, so be careful.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund ranks average in the intelligence ranking of dogs.
Some dogs handle moderate punishment very well, while others crumble apart at a dirty look. This breed is not affected emotionally by moderate punishment.
Top reasons for barking: protection, alarm, fear, boredom, attention-seeking, greeting, separation anxiety, compulsive barking.
Low  🔽
Between 200 and 400 PSI  ⏺
The Appenzeller Sennenhund, and many others, have a fearsome presence because they have significant jaw strength, so it is important not to anger the dog and have it around strangers until it is fully trained.
However, they are usually quite calm and good companions, they work well in families and are easy to care for.
In conclusion, while the Appenzeller Sennenhund bite force is certainly an interesting aspect of the breed, it is important not to let it overshadow the many other reasons why these dogs are so loved and respected. With proper training and socialization, an Appenzeller Sennenhund can be a loyal and protective companion for your family.
Do Appenzeller Sennenhund dogs need a lot of exercises?
If you notice any weight gain, consult your veterinarian and make a diet plan. Reduce unhealthy food and snacks, and measure the Appenzeller Sennenhund weight regularly.
Ears and eyes should be cleaned regularly to avoid infections. Appenzeller Sennenhund is a good choice if you don't have the time, skill, or money to take care of a high-maintenance dog.
If you notice any change in your dog's drooling habit, you should contact a vet as soon as possible.
Medium  ⏺
Bathing will wash away your dog’s natural oils, while a simple brushing every few days should keep them clean.
Not really This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for service purposes.
This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for service purposes.
Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for service purposes.
Not really This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Not really They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for detection purposes.
They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Not really This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
Not really Appenzeller Sennenhund breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Appenzeller Sennenhund breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Yes
Appenzeller Sennenhund breed is a good choice for drafting purposes.
Not really In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
60-64 days
During this time the females start to attract males. You can notice by swelling vulva and bloody discharge.
The second part is the Estrus when the female is receptive for the male. It lasts for about 3 to 11 days.
The sign of the proestrus part is the soft and enlarged vulva. The discharge decreases and lightens in color.
The third part is the Diestrus. Normally, it occurs around day 14. In this period the female’s discharge changes for vivid red and coming to its end. The vulva returns to average, and she will no longer permit mating.
The fourth part called the Anestrus. The time frame between heat periods normally lasts about six months.
Once a year.
The earliest origins of the Appenzeller Sennenhund are largely unknown as it was developed before written records were kept of dog breeding. According to a theory, Sennenhunds are descended from the ancient Molossus breed brought to the region by the Romans. The Appenzeller Sennenhund is native to the Alpine region of Appenzell, located in the far northeast of Switzerland. The breed is one of four closely related breeds of Sennenhund, also known as Swiss Mountain Dogs or Swiss Cattle Dogs. The other three are the Greater Swiss Mountain Dog, the Bernese Mountain Dog, and the Entlebucher Mountain Dog. There is substantial debate as to how the Sennenhunds should be classified, with many sources placing them with the Mastiff/Molosser/Alaunt family and just as many placing them with the Pinscher/Schnauzer family.
Despite the uncertainty of the breed’s start, it’s well established that the Appenzeller was part of daily life in the Alps by the 1800s. In fact, the earliest published description of the breed is dated from 1853 in a text entitled ‘Tierieben der Alpenwelt’ (Animal Life in the Alps), describes the breed as “a clearly barking, short-haired, medium size, multicolor cattle dog of a quite even Spitz-type which can be found in certain regions and is used the party to guard the homestead, partly to herd cattle”. Moreover, these dogs were kept mostly by dairy farmers across Switzerland, earning the name Sennenhund, which loosely translates to ‘Dairy Farmer Dog’. Their primary task, as mentioned in the quotation, was to drive cattle from the remote countryside to population centers where they could be sold and butchered, although they also served the same purpose on the farms. The remote Swiss valleys in which these dogs lived have long been home to dangerous creatures such as wolves and human thieves. Farmers greatly preferred these dogs, as they were willing and able to protect their families from such dangers, or at least warn them. As a result, the breed became a highly protective and very skilled guard dog. For many centuries, and possibly millennia, the Appenzeller Sennenhun and its relatives faithfully served the farmers of Switzerland. They were being actively used considerably longer than similar breeds found in other countries, as modern technology came to the Alps later than almost anywhere else in Western Europe. However, change eventually came by the end of the 19th century, and Sennenhunds were being replaced. New methods of transportation such as the train and automobile began to render the Sennenhunds obsolete. Many different varieties disappeared altogether, and eventually, only four remained. The Appenzeller Sennenhound began to decline as well, but it never reached quite the desperate state of the other three breeds.
Moreover, in the late 1800s, a forester from the Appenzeller region named Max Siber recognized the need for a breeding program and standard to preserve these special dogs. In 1896, he formally requested the aid of the Swizz Kennel Club to save the breed, and eventually, public funding was given for the breeding and raising of Appenzeller Sennenhunds. The Swiss Kennel Club formed a special commission at a fair in which 9 male and 7 female breed members were exhibited. The club decided on essential breed characteristics and began including Appenzeller Sennenhunds at its shows in the new class specifically created for cattle dogs. At around the same time that Max Siber was trying to save the breed, the internationally recognized scientist Doctor Albert Heim was doing the same for the other surviving Sennenhunds. Heim and his supporters collected the last examples of the Bernese Mountain Dog and the Entlebucher Mountain Dog and began to breed them. Shortly after, the Greater Swiss Mountain Dog was rediscovered after it was believed to have gone extinct, and this breed was added to Heim’s efforts as well. From a very early date, Heim was also interested in preserving the Appenzeller and greatly aided the breed’s recovery efforts. In 1906, Heim organized the Appenzeller Sennenhund Club to promote and protect the breed in its natural state. Studbooks were kept for the first time in the breed’s history and in 1914 Heim wrote the first written standard for the Appenzeller Sennenhund. The breed quickly spread throughout Switzerland where they found many fanciers interested in preserving the native breed. For a period between the late 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, the Appenzeller was the most popular of all Sennenhunds. However, this situation has changed dramatically, and the other three breeds gradually became more popular, especially the Bernese Mountain Dog.
In recent years, the Appenzeller Sennenhun’s numbers have been increasing outside of Switzerland, but only slowly and the breed is still considered to be quite rare. In 1993, the United Kennel Club granted formal recognition to the breed as a member of the Guardian Dog Group, under the name Appenzeller. A small number of Appenzeller fanciers and breeders in the United States and Canada got together to form the Appenzeller Mountain Dog Club of America. Their eventual goal was to earn full recognition with the American Kennel Club, a status that has already been achieved by the other three Sennenhund breeds. By 2007, the breed had been entered in the AKC’s Foundation Stock Service Program, which means that the organization supports the breed’s development efforts but it’s not yet registered with the AKC.
--------------------------------------------------
Discover the spirited Appenzeller Sennenhund, a versatile breed. Get expert insights on their characteristics, temperament, and care tips for a happy pet.
Did you know that the Appenzeller Sennenhund, a versatile herding dog breed from Switzerland, has a square, well-balanced, and muscular build with a short, dense tricolor double coat? This breed is known for its intelligence, loyalty, and liveliness, making it a popular choice for dog lovers worldwide.
Table of Contents
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is a medium-sized dog breed known for its distinct characteristics and vibrant personality. Here are some key features that make this breed standout:
The distinctive characteristics of the Appenzeller Sennenhund combine to create a visually appealing and spirited breed that stands out in any setting.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is a lively and alert breed with a temperament that is both intelligent and energetic. Known for their strong bond with their families, Appenzeller Sennenhunds can be somewhat wary of strangers.
This breed requires plenty of physical and mental exercise to keep them happy and fulfilled. Their high energy level makes them well-suited for active families who can provide ample opportunities for play and exercise.
Appenzeller Sennenhunds are moderately affectionate and friendly, particularly towards their families. They are known to get along well with older children, making them a suitable choice for families in search of a canine companion.
It is important to note that Appenzeller Sennenhunds have a tendency to bark, which can be managed through early training and socialization. Their protective instincts can be directed appropriately with proper guidance and reinforcement.
In terms of friendliness, kid-friendliness, and pet-friendliness, Appenzeller Sennenhunds fall in the medium range.

Appenzeller Sennenhunds possess a unique temperament that requires an understanding and committed owner. With their lively and alert nature, they bring joy and energy to any loving home.
The exact origin of the Appenzeller Sennenhund is not known, but it is closely related to other Swiss herding breeds such as the Greater Swiss Mountain Dog, Bernese Mountain Dog, and Entlebucher Mountain Dog. These breeds share a common heritage and have been used by Swiss farmers and herders for centuries.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund, also known as the Appenzeller Mountain Dog, has a rich history in Switzerland. This versatile breed was developed in the mid-1800s and played a vital role in various tasks, including guarding properties, herding livestock, and pulling carts. They were particularly valued for their ability to work with cows and were often found herding and guarding dairy cattle.
The name “Sennenhund” translates to “dairy farmer’s dog” in English, which reflects the breed’s historical connection to the Swiss dairy farming industry. These dogs were bred to be hardworking, versatile, and dependable companions for farmers and herders.
In 1914, the first official breed standard for the Appenzeller Sennenhund was established, which further solidified their status as a distinct breed. This standard outlined the physical and temperament characteristics that define the breed, ensuring consistency in their appearance and behavior.
Today, the Appenzeller Sennenhund remains a beloved breed both in its native Switzerland and around the world. Their history as working dogs has shaped their temperament and characteristics, making them excellent companions for active individuals and families who appreciate their intelligence, loyalty, and versatility.
Proper exercise and grooming are essential for the well-being of the Appenzeller Sennenhund. This breed thrives on an active lifestyle and requires plenty of daily exercise to stay healthy and happy. Engaging in various activities such as long walks, hikes, running, cycling, swimming, and participating in dog sports like agility and herding trials can provide the necessary physical stimulation for this energetic breed. Regular exercise not only helps to maintain their physical fitness but also promotes mental well-being.
In addition to physical exercise, mental stimulation is vital for the Appenzeller Sennenhund. This intelligent breed enjoys puzzle toys and varied training sessions to keep their minds engaged. Mental exercises help prevent boredom and potential behavioral problems that may arise from a lack of mental stimulation.
Grooming the Appenzeller Sennenhund also plays a crucial role in their overall health and appearance. They have a short, smooth double coat that requires regular brushing at least once a week to remove loose fur and prevent tangles. This grooming routine helps maintain the coat’s cleanliness and reduces shedding. Regular bathing, ear cleaning, nail trimming, and teeth brushing are also necessary for proper hygiene and to prevent any potential health issues.
Appenzeller Sennenhund exercise is essential for their physical and mental well-being, while grooming helps keep them clean and healthy.

Early training and socialization are crucial for the Appenzeller Sennenhund. They are intelligent and quick learners but can also have a stubborn streak. Positive reinforcement training methods, such as treats and praise, work best for this breed. Harsh corrections should be avoided.
Appenzeller Sennenhunds should be exposed to different people, other dogs, and various locations to boost their comfort and confidence around strangers. This can help to manage their protective instincts and ensure they are well-adjusted in different situations.

The Appenzeller Sennenhund is generally a healthy breed with no known hereditary health issues. However, like all dogs, they may be prone to certain health issues as they age. It is important for Appenzeller Sennenhund owners to be aware of these potential health concerns and take appropriate measures to ensure their dog’s well-being.
While these health issues are not exclusive to Appenzeller Sennenhunds, it is crucial for owners to monitor their dog’s health closely and seek veterinary care whenever necessary. Regular check-ups, a balanced diet, and proper exercise are key to maintaining the overall health and well-being of this breed.
If you’re looking to bring an Appenzeller Sennenhund into your life, you may come across some challenges due to their rarity. However, there are a few options to consider when trying to find this unique breed.
One of the best ways to bring home an Appenzeller Sennenhund is by adopting from rescue organizations or shelters. While they may not always have Appenzeller Sennenhunds available, it’s worth checking with local rescue groups or contacting shelters to inquire about any dogs in need of a new home. By adopting, you not only provide a loving environment for a dog in need but also support the important work of rescue organizations.
If you decide to purchase an Appenzeller Sennenhund puppy, it’s crucial to do thorough research to find a reputable breeder. Look for breeders who prioritize the health and temperament of their dogs, and who follow ethical breeding practices. Reputable breeders will be able to provide you with information about the puppy’s lineage, health clearances, and socialization efforts. Remember to ask questions and visit the breeder’s facilities to ensure they meet your expectations.
When searching for the best Appenzeller Sennenhund breeders, consider reaching out to national or regional breed clubs for recommendations. These organizations often have strict breeding standards and can connect you with breeders who are dedicated to the betterment of the Appenzeller Sennenhund breed.
On average, an Appenzeller Sennenhund puppy from a reputable breeder can cost between $1,800 and $2,200. The price may vary depending on factors such as the breeder’s reputation, the puppy’s pedigree, and any additional services included in the purchase.
When considering purchasing a puppy, be cautious of online platforms or individuals offering Appenzeller Sennenhund puppies at significantly lower prices. These may be signs of unscrupulous breeders or puppy mills, and it’s important to prioritize the well-being of the dogs and support responsible breeding practices.
Remember, responsible breeding and adoption practices ensure the health and welfare of the dogs, and contribute to the long-term sustainability and improvement of the breed.

Appenzeller Sennenhunds are an intelligent and versatile breed with several pros and cons to consider before bringing one into your family. Here are the key points to keep in mind:
When considering an Appenzeller Sennenhund, it’s important to weigh these pros and cons to ensure that their needs align with your lifestyle and capabilities. They can make wonderful companions for dedicated owners who can provide them with the physical and mental stimulation they require.
If you are interested in breeds similar to the Appenzeller Sennenhund, you may also consider the following:
The Greater Swiss Mountain Dog is a large and powerful breed known for its strength and endurance. Like the Appenzeller Sennenhund, they have a loyal and affectionate nature. They are also excellent working dogs and possess similar herding instincts.
The Bernese Mountain Dog is another Swiss breed that shares similarities with the Appenzeller Sennenhund. They are both renowned for their gentle temperament and love for their families. Both breeds have a strong herding background and enjoy outdoor activities.
The Entlebucher Mountain Dog, also from Switzerland, is the smallest of the Swiss herding breeds. They are lively, intelligent, and make devoted companions. Like the Appenzeller Sennenhund, they are diligent workers and excel in herding tasks.
The Australian Cattle Dog is a highly intelligent and energetic breed bred for herding cattle. They share the Appenzeller Sennenhund’s herding instincts and can be loyal and protective toward their families. The Australian Cattle Dog requires an active lifestyle and mental stimulation.
Before making a decision, it is essential to research and understand the specific needs and temperaments of each breed. Consider factors such as exercise requirements, grooming needs, and compatibility with your lifestyle and living situation.
Note: The images used in this section are for visual representation purposes only and may not depict the exact breeds mentioned.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is a spirited and versatile breed that combines the qualities of a hardworking herding dog and a devoted companion. With their square and muscular build, they are well-suited for various tasks and excel in an active lifestyle. Regular exercise, mental stimulation, and early training and socialization are crucial for managing their protective instincts and dominant tendencies.
Despite their rarity, Appenzeller Sennenhunds make loyal and loving family pets for those who can provide them with the necessary physical and mental engagement. Their intelligence and adaptability enable them to thrive in different environments, as long as they receive the care, attention, and stimulation they require.
To ensure the health and well-being of the Appenzeller Sennenhund, responsible breeding practices and regular veterinary check-ups are essential. By prioritizing their overall health and addressing any potential issues promptly, owners can ensure that their beloved Appenzeller Sennenhunds lead happy and fulfilling lives.
The International All Breed Canine Association (IABCA)
American Kennel Club (AKC)
Homepage

[…] only helps them look their best but also ensures their overall well-being. Brushing, bathing, ear care, and eye care are essential elements of a comprehensive grooming routine for this distinctive and […]
[…] has a beautiful double coat that requires regular care to keep it healthy and looking its best. Here are some essential tips for grooming and maintaining the coat of this unique […]
[…] Care Tips […]
[…] it’s important to help them acclimate to their new environment. Here are some sphynx cat care tips to ensure a smooth […]
[…] the right hunting dog breed is an important decision that requires careful consideration. Here are some factors to consider when selecting a hunting dog […]
[…] to ensure their overall health and well-being. In this section, I will share with you some crucial tips on Persian Cat care and grooming that will help you keep your feline friend happy and […]
[…] Socialization and training play a crucial role in shaping the friendliness of the Alapaha Blue Blood Bulldog towards other dogs and strangers. Here are some essential tips for socializing and training this breed: […]
[…] successful alpaca breeding relies on a combination of careful planning, genetic selection, and proper animal husbandry. By implementing the breeding strategy […]
[…] As a Beagle owner, providing the best care for your furry friend is essential for their health and happiness. Here are some tips to ensure your Beagle receives the best possible care: […]
[…] Portuguese Water Dogs are expensive because they are a rare breed and have a high demand. Additionally, they require specialized breeding and care. […]
[…] cats are a popular breed for both breeding and showing. Breeders must be careful to select cats that are free from genetic health issues and that meet the breed standard for physical […]
[…] role in maintaining the health and well-being of your American Staffordshire Terrier. Here are some care tips to keep in […]
--------------------------------------------------
Foundation Stock Service
22-30 kg
50-56 cm
12-15 years
Appenzellers are a wonderful dog breed, and if you were thinking of getting one to be the newest member of the family, then you have come to the right place.
In this dog breed guide, we will cover everything you need to know about Appenzellers so you can make an informed buying or adopting decision.
The 1853 publication, “Tierleben der Alpenwelt” (Animal Life in the Alps), was the first time an Appenzell Cattle Dog was described as a “high-pitch barking, short-haired, medium size, multicolour cattle dog of a quite even Spitz type, which can be found in certain regions and is used partly to guard the homestead, partly to herd cattle.”
The accurate lineage of the Appenzeller Sennenhund is unknown. But it’s easy to see the resemblance to other Swiss mountain dogs like the Bernese Mountain Dog, Greater Swiss Mountain Dog and Entlebucher Mountain Dog.
During the 1800s, dogs very similar to the Appenzeller Sennenhund were very popular in Switzerland amongst farmers to protect livestock and pull carts.
The breed was first recognised by the Swiss Kennel Club, a breed club, at the end of the 19th century but it wasn’t until 1914 that a Swiss cynologist and geologist by the name of Albert Heim established the first breeding standard for the Appenzeller Sennunhund. However, it is still a very uncommon breed internationally.
Appenzeller Sennenhund, also known as the Appenzeller Mountain dog, is one of four breeds of Sennenhund. They have their origins as a farm dog breed, and they get their breed name from the Senn people, herders native to the Appenzell region of Switzerland.
As mentioned earlier, the Appenzeller Sennenhund dog breed is a medium-sized breed and is one of the more energetic dog breeds when compared to other dogs. Being bred as a herding dog, unlike other dogs, it is not scared of other animals much larger than itself.
Mountain dogs are extremely loyal and protective as they form a very strong bond with their family and make fantastic guard dogs, as they can be very cautious of strangers.
Appenzeller Sennenhund puppies must be introduced to young kids at an early age as this helps them to get socialised early. The Appenzell Mountain dog is an extremely healthy breed and being a part of the American Kennel Club (AKC) ensures that breeding standards are monitored.
Bred to be cattle dogs, the Appenzeller Sennenhund is a dairy farmer’s dog which makes them an extremely high-energy dog breed with a very high requirement for mental stimulation. If not provided with enough space or an outlet for this energy, like in a dog park or playing some dog sports, an adult dog can become restless and misbehave.
If socialised from a puppy age and with enough space for them to grow into a high-energy adult dog, these are fantastic family dogs that enjoy being around children.
Originating in the mountains of the Swiss Alps, these herding dogs are bred to have a thick double coat to protect them from the extreme cold.
When it comes to dog breeds that have double coats, it is very important to note that you must not shave them as it can do long-term damage as the undercoat grows back faster and often overcrowds the guard hairs, which grow slower. This interferes with how the dog regulates its body temperature.
When grooming Appenzellers, it is much more beneficial to the dog to brush its coat out thoroughly.
An Appenzeller Sennenhund needs regular brushing to avoid matting of their coat, be prepared for mountains of dog hair because seasonal shedding is part of the deal. So during these shedding periods, they will need even more regular brushing sessions to remove all the excess fur in their coat.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is a very vocal breed which is part of what makes them such a good guard dog breed. The American Kennel Club has their barking level ranked at a four out of five, with one being only barking to alert and five being very vocal. These dogs will not only bark at something to alert you, but they are known to bark at passers-by and anything that moves.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund weighs between 22kg-30kg and stands between 50cm and 56cm tall with a square, muscular build. These athletic dogs are agile and like to throw their weight around.
It is very important to start training and socialising your Appenzeller, ideally when they are still puppies, to prevent the establishment of bad behaviour. These dogs are very intelligent and will learn commands very fast, but they do tend to be a bit stubborn at times.
As a breed in general, they do not respond well to harsh behavioural corrections which is why it is recommended to always utilise positive-reinforcement training techniques like treats and praise. Keeping the training sessions fun and dynamic is also very helpful in maintaining their attention since training is just a game for a dog.
“Respect Training” is a very important dog training method that is recommended when training Appenzellers. A dog that respects its owner will be obedient and will stop what they are doing when told “No.”
Appenzeller Sennenhunde develops a very strong connection with their family and loves attention. They tend to jump up a lot and love being very in your face! They like to shove their body against your leg and are generally very enthusiastic dogs. They are child friendly but tend to be a bit boisterous and can knock the little ones over.
They can be quite dominant and pushy, but these characteristics are necessary traits for a dog who must control livestock. Because of this, they have been known to chase and nip at the heels of things that move i.e., joggers and cyclists.
Appenzellers are generally a very healthy breed and have few health issues associated with them. Appenzeller can experience pain caused by hip dysplasia as they get older. Cataracts are a common health problem associated with this breed as well.
Epilepsy can also be an issue for Appenzellers, this is a hereditary condition that causes seizures that can be worked out through proper breeding practice.
Generally 2 measured feedings a day of high-quality dog food with high protein, nutrient-dense food will make sure that your dog is getting the essential nutrition needed to support an active dog as well as additional supplementation of omega 3 to help support the brain function required in such an intelligent breed.
The general price for Appenzeller Sennenhund puppies starts at about $1000. Unfortunately, breeders for these types of dogs are not very common in Australia.
The Bernese Mountain Dog Club of Western Australia focuses their efforts on all four Swiss Mountain Dog breeds, and they will be able to direct you to a breeder close to you if you are looking for a puppy. They also have a rescue program; if you are looking to adopt a rescue, they have some wonderful rescue dogs available.
The short answer is no.
Appenzeller Mountain Dogs are not a hypoallergenic breed, neither if you have a dander allergy, nor if you have a saliva allergy. Given the amount these dogs shed, it’s no surprise that they are not hypoallergenic.
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is the rarest of the Swiss Mountain Dog breeds despite the first breed club recognising it as a breed over a century ago.
Welcome to Pets Online, a team of pet parents, animal lovers and veterinarians devoted to providing you with everything you need to know about pets.
© PetsOnline. All Rights Reserved 2025.
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
--------------------------------------------------
