Image Credit: MLARANDA, Pixabay
Last Updated on March 10, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click to Skip Ahead
While the breed that most of us recognize as Siamese has an angular face, elegant thin bodies, and large eyes, this “classic” Siamese silhouette is a relatively modern development in this breed. The traditional Thai breed that the Siamese comes from was actually descended from a larger, rounder type of cat.
Height:
10–12 inches
Weight:
5–11 pounds
Lifespan:
10–13 years
Colors:
Creamy white fur on the body with points in a wide range of colors
Suitable for:
Families looking for a heavier Siamese-type cat who resembles the traditional Thai breed that the Siamese is originally descended from
Temperament:
Loyal, talkative, affectionate, and playful
Breeders in some areas have returned to this traditional Siamese shape, and these cats are known as Applehead Siamese. These cats share many of the same character traits as any other Siamese but have different body shapes. Some breed registries refer to the Applehead Siamese as the Thai breed, though.
If you’ve found yourself wishing for a Siamese cat with a muscular body and a more rounded face, you’re in the right place. Applehead Siamese cats are playful, vocal, and intelligent, just like any other Siamese cat.
We’ll tell you everything you need to know about the eye-catching Applehead Siamese so you’ll be ready to start looking for that perfect new kitten.


A post shared by Heidi Shoemaker (@fosterkittenmama)

Siamese kittens are adorable, but don’t be surprised if you visit a litter only to see snowy white kittens! Their breeder isn’t pulling a fast one—all Siamese kittens are born white. Their points only develop as the kittens mature.
Even though those kittens are extremely cute, we recommend waiting until you’re 100% sure that bringing home an Applehead Siamese is the right thing for you and your family before you commit yourself. Applehead Siamese cats crave their owner’s attention, so they’re not the sort of cat that you can leave home alone every day while you’re at work.
Applehead Siamese cats are just like any other Siamese cat in that they’re very talkative. This means you can look forward to a constant stream of chatter from your cat. They might feel like telling you that it’s raining outside, a bird just landed on their feeder, or their water bowl is empty—the list goes on! Some owners find this incredibly endearing, and hopefully, you fall within that group! But for others who might prefer a quieter cat, it can become a little grating.
Applehead Siamese cats are also incredibly loyal, so don’t be surprised if they form strong bonds with their human family members. They can also be territorial, so sometimes, they’re happier as a single cat—more attention for them, of course!
Siamese cats are a popular breed, but the Applehead variety is less so. Applehead Siamese cats might be pedigree, but many modern show rings will mark them down for being not Siamese enough. They are starting to become more popular, though, as more breeders and owners are starting to see that the Applehead is actually closer to the traditional appearance of the Siamese breed.
You will need to take the time to find a breeder who specializes in producing Applehead Siamese cats. Their price will vary, but we recommend expecting to pay somewhere between $800–$1,500. Many Applehead Siamese cats can be registered as pedigree Siamese, although their traditional appearance can sometimes count against them if you want to show them. Since the Applehead is becoming more popular, some shows are starting to offer separate classes for them.
It’s possible that you’ll find kittens cheaper, but bear in mind that these may be mixed breeds, with one Siamese parent and one parent of another breed. This might be totally fine with you, but make sure you’re aware of that fact so you don’t think that you’re getting a pedigree Applehead Siamese for a bargain price.
All honest breeders will be able to provide paperwork for both parent cats, including any health tests that they may have had. If you can, it’s a good idea to visit the breeder’s facilities and meet both parent cats. Asking for references can also help you establish if a breeder is trustworthy. If they are, they will be more than happy to answer any of your questions.
If you have a particular pointed color in mind for your new kitten, bear in mind that all Siamese kittens will be born white. Their color will develop by the time you’re ready to take them home, but you may not be able to specify a color preference if you have to reserve a kitten in advance. Depending on the parent’s point coloration, an experienced breeder may be able to tell you the possible colors of the kitten’s points.

The svelte body and angular-shaped head of the Siamese breed these days are the result of generations of breeding concentrating on those particular characteristics. This has taken the appearance of the Siamese breed further away from the original Thai cats that were exhibited in the 1980s.
It also led to health problems, including eye and ear defects and kidney and cardiovascular issues. As a result, some Siamese breeders decided to try and return to breeding Siamese cats with a more traditional appearance. That’s how the Applehead Siamese came to be!
In the U.K., you might see the Applehead Siamese called “old style”. Applehead was originally used as a bit of an insult, but of course, plenty of families and breeders love the appearance of these sweet cats, so it’s evolved into a description of this particular branch of Siamese heritage.
One way to distinguish between the modern Siamese breed and the Applehead Siamese has been to refer to them as two separate breeds. The International Cat Association registers Applehead Siamese cats as the Thai breed.
In Thailand, the Applehead Siamese is also called the Wichienmaat, and in Europe, they’re commonly called the “Old Style Siamese”.
The reason for the Siamese cat’s distinctive pointed coat is a gene known as the Himalayan gene. This causes temperature-sensitive albinism, with warmer areas of the coat not developing color.
Due to the warm temperature of a mother cat’s womb, all Siamese kittens are born white. As their bodies respond to the change in temperature, their points will start to develop. The cooler temperature of their legs, ears, face, and tail means that the hair there will become pigmented.

In addition to their beautiful pointed coats, Applehead Siamese cats are affectionate, playful, and outgoing. They share all the same characteristics as the Siamese breed itself. These cats love attention, so they will often follow you around the house and talk to you as you go about your business.
Their sense of play means you’ll often find your Applehead Siamese doing slightly silly things, like seeing what small objects they can balance on, climbing to the highest point that they possibly can, or exploring a cupboard to see if anything is interesting in there.
These cats are chatty but not overly loud. They’ll be sure to let you know if they’re hungry or would simply like attention. If a meow or chirp doesn’t work, they may tap you with their paw or come and stand in front of you and demand your attention.
Applehead Siamese cats are happiest when they have human company, so don’t expect to be able to leave them at home all day while you’re at work. You may come home to find ornaments knocked over, curtains pulled down, and other forms of havoc! If you don’t give an Applehead Siamese enough attention or entertainment, they will make their own fun, and it usually involves making a mess!
Applehead Siamese cats love to belong to a family, and you might need a few people to help keep these curious cats entertained! Applehead Siamese cats are loyal and usually form strong bonds with all their family members. They may develop a preference for one person in particular, but they will demand attention from everyone!
The playful and inquisitive nature of Applehead Siamese cats means they can make great playmates for kids as long as the children know how to interact safely with cats. This breed loves learning tricks and playing games, and they’ll always be up for attention.
All Siamese cats, including the Applehead, can be protective of their territory when it comes to sharing it with another cat. This can make introducing a new cat into a house with an existing Applehead more of a challenge. It will depend on the personalities of each cat, their age, and sex.
There are a few different steps that you can take to make the introductions easier, such as using a pheromone spray or diffuser, giving each cat their own “zones” of the house where they can retreat to, and making sure they won’t need to compete over resources by providing plenty of different places with food, water, and litter boxes.
Speaking to a cat behaviorist or your vet can help make the transition easier, as they will have plenty of tips and tricks to share.
Applehead Siamese cats often enjoy living with dogs, as it means they always have company! Depending on the personality of your cat and dog, they may play together or find a cozy spot to curl up for a nap.

Deciding to become the owner of an Applehead Siamese takes more than just buying a new kitten. You’ll need to invest plenty of time and money into the health and welfare of your new kitten as they grow into a mature cat. Before you make up your mind, here’s more information that you might find useful.
Applehead Siamese cats have plenty of energy, so they need a good quality cat food with a high percentage of protein to help them build lean muscle. Look for a feed that uses real meat as the first ingredient and doesn’t contain fillers, meat by-products, or any artificial colors or flavors.
Whether you choose to feed kibble, wet food, or raw food to your cat will depend on your budget and preferences, as well as what your cat prefers!
If your Applehead Siamese is going to live indoors, then consider selecting a food that’s specifically designed to meet the requirements of indoor cats. These foods tend to contain fewer calories, as indoor cats are usually more sedentary than outdoor cats and can be at higher risk of putting on weight. These foods often have a higher fiber content, too, which can help with reducing hairballs.
As an active and playful breed, you’ll want to provide plenty of opportunities for your Applehead Siamese to use up their energy. These cats love to climb, so consider adding vertical enrichment in the form of cat hammocks, trees, and scratching posts. You could also set up an outdoor cat enclosure to give your indoor cat a safe place to enjoy the fresh air.
Make sure your cat has many toys to play with, as these will help them feel like the tiny hunters that they are. You can also get food puzzles or toy mice that you can hide food in for your cat to find.
Some Applehead Siamese cats will enjoy going for walks using a harness and leash. It’s a good idea to spend plenty of time at home training them to feel comfortable with this before you head outside.
Applehead Siamese cats can love the challenge of learning new tricks. It helps keep their brains active, which in turn, helps them chill out and relax later! From walking on a leash to learning how to sit, stay, and even high-five, these clever cats are more than capable of picking up a wide range of commands.
Using positive reinforcement with a clicker and treats is one of the best ways to effectively train your Applehead Siamese cat.
The coat of Applehead Siamese cats is silky soft, with a thin undercoat. It’s easy to keep clean with a quick weekly brush.
As with any Siamese, the Applehead or Thai breed can suffer from a few health conditions. It’s always a good idea to speak to your kitten’s breeder and ask for more information, including whether the parent cats have had any health tests and, if so, which ones.

If you’re sure that the Applehead Siamese or Thai cat is the right breed for you, then you might be wondering whether you’d prefer a male or female cat. Remember that the personality of each cat won’t be dependent on their sex, so we’d suggest choosing your kitten based on their personality rather than if they’re male or female.
You might be imagining an outgoing male kitten, only to discover that the females of the litter are braver!

They’re outgoing, playful, smart, and affectionate. Life with an Applehead Siamese will never be boring! These cats simply love spending time with their humans, although you may need to come to terms with the fact that you’ll be under your cat’s command forevermore!
Applehead Siamese cats may need more attention and interaction than your average cat, so make sure you can dedicate enough time to giving them what they need. If you do, they’ll repay you with plenty of affection and loyalty. If you’ve got an Applehead Siamese, we’d love to hear more about your charismatic cat! You can get in touch using the comments section below.
See also:
Featured Image Credit: MLARANDA, Pixabay
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Hi,
Loved your article.
We have rehomed a rescue, neutered Thai Seal Point Applehead. Thanos was being fed lots of milk and other dairy products by neighbours in the town where he lived. At the age of just 30 months he was diagnosed as having the beginnings of CKD, exacerbated by the dairy material and his natural lactose intolerance. His original servants sent letters to all the neighbours asking them to stop feeding Thanos with such products but at least one ignored their pleas. They were forced to rehome him to save his life. He now has a new life in the country and is generally recognised as the best pest controller for miles! At day one we placed an advert in our local Parish Magazine asking all the residents in our village to not feed him such products. They have all helped and indeed, he now has a fan club at the local grocery store. His crepuscular instincts have led to the use of a video baby alarm to monitor his acitivities in his feeding area and through the chip sensitive cat flap. He loves to leave "Trophy" gifts of rats and mice for our attention… but we prefer to be prepared for what we will find!!
Hi Geoff Hudson, thank you very much for sharing Thanos's story. So happy to hear you managed to re-home him and save his life. The “cats love milk” myth is rooted in so many humans with no real-life cat experience. Anyway, it sounds like he is great at making friends and fans everywhere he goes and is providing an important service to his community! Thanks for reading us, we are delighted to know you loved our post.
I raised very dog aggressive staffordshire terriers
But my cats ruled the roost. They always let the dogs be aware of the cat’s territory.  And they enforced the law. My dogs were anything but timid. They liked
Nothing better to  ravage a band of coyotes.
Hi Larry, thanks for sharing your story. Yes, cats will find their way around to claim their “king of” ruler place, and we think they deserve it!
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
As the traditional Siamese cats from Siam, now known as Thailand, this ancient breed of cat goes back to 1350AD. It is believed that these Traditional Siamese cats were first exported to the west in the 19th century.
The Applehead is a Siamese cat that looks the way Siamese looked when they were first brought out to the United States in the 19th century. Breeding with other cat breeds is what developed the Applehead Siamese.
The Applehead seal point was also imported to Britain. Breeders have developed other point colors and head shapes by cross-breeding long- and short hairs, but all Siamese are essentially bred from the Applehead seal point.
There is no denying that the very recognizable Siamese cats are one of the most popular cat breeds there are, known also for being very vocal.
The female Applehead weighs between 3 and 5kg and the male might weight a bit more, as much as 6,8kg.
Siamese cats are all born white but as they mature they develop their deeper color points. There are actually 3 types of Siamese cats, with the Traditional Siamese being known as the Apple Head - the original breed of Siamese.
This particular Siamese is a bit bigger and larger-boned than the modern Siamese, with the body being more muscular and heavier. The head of the cat is fairly round- or apple-shaped with the eyes also being somewhat rounder than other types of cats.
The legs are long and the tail long too and the cat has a fairly short, silky coat.
These cats look intelligent and they are, so much so, that it will be important to present them with lots of toys that make them think and require some skills.
They also love receiving attention from their human owners and although they are also vocal, they don’t talk as much as the modern Siamese cats.
They're curious and playful and don’t like being left alone for too long. They also get on well with children and other pets in the home but are inclined to become more attached to one particular person, wanting to follow their favorite human around.
Applehead Siamese cats are very friendly and loving pets. They are intelligent and very beautiful too, with their amazing blue eyes.
You will enjoy their friendship as they are prepared to become totally devoted to you, and of course, your playful cat will provide you with lots of laughs and entertainment too. The Applehead Siamese is known to make a splendid pet for you and once you've owned one, you'll think twice before getting another cat breed.
These are a healthy breed of cat and they have always been known to live longer than the modern Siamese cats.
With good care they can live to be up to 20 to 25 years of age. Good nutrition and a loving environment can help to eliminate diseases that the Siamese might have to endure. Some of these can be a blockage in the stomach, skin cancer, feline diabetes, hip dysplasia, and disrupted visual pathway which causes a squint.
These cats have special nutritional needs and you want to be aware that obesity is a growing problem with modern-day cats. Make sure your Applehead has a healthy diet to maintain a healthy weight so that he keeps his lithe, lean looks.
You might want to try a little bit of homemade food to enhance your Siamese cat's commercial food which is a mix of top quality meat-based wet- and dry food.  You can speak to your vet about feeding your Applehead Siamese because you want to know which food is best for such a cat.
These days the best cat food manufacturers make sure that their cat foods are made up of tasty ingredients such as real chicken and whole brown rice formulated with the right balance of vitamins and minerals to meet the dietary needs of every cat breed and the season of life they are in.
Because of the Siamese cat’s short hair with no undercoat, the cat requires less brushing than other cats.
--------------------------------------------------
Applehead Siamese cats, also known as traditional Siamese or Old-Style Siamese, are a breed of domestic cats known for their distinctive head shape and striking blue eyes. They are recognized by cat breeding organizations such as the Cat Fanciers’ Association (CFA) and The International Cat Association (TICA).
One of the most distinctive features of Applehead Siamese cats is their piercing blue eyes. These eyes result from the cats’ genetic makeup and are present from birth. In addition to their striking appearance, Siamese cats are known for their intelligence and playful personalities. They are often very vocal and affectionate with their human companions and strongly bond with their owners.
The Applehead Siamese cat, also known as the traditional Siamese or Old-Style Siamese, has a rich history dating back over a thousand years. These cats were initially bred as royal pets in the first kingdom of Siam (now Thailand) and were highly prized for their beauty and intelligence. They were considered sacred animals and were often depicted in royal artwork and ceremonial dress. The first documented mention of Siamese cats in the Western world was in the late 1800s when they were brought to England by British diplomats. They quickly gained popularity and were exhibited at the first modern cat show in London in 1871.
In the early 1900s, Siamese cats were imported to the United States and became one of the most popular breeds in the country. Over time, the appearance of the Siamese breed changed as breeders experimented with different body types and coat colors. In the 1950s and 60s, a new type of Siamese cat with a more slender, elongated body and wedge-shaped head became popular. This new type, known as the Modern Siamese, displaced the traditional Applehead Siamese in popularity for several decades.
Applehead Siamese cats are generally healthy and can live long, happy lives with proper care. With good nutrition, preventive healthcare, and regular vet checkups, these cats can live an average of 15-20 years. However, like all breeds, Applehead Siamese cats are prone to specific health issues. Some common health concerns for this breed include:
By providing your Applehead Siamese with a healthy diet, regular exercise, and preventive healthcare, you can help ensure they live a long, happy, and healthy life.
There are four main types of Siamese cats:
The price of Applehead Siamese kittens can vary depending on factors such as the age of the kitten, its gender, its pedigree, and its physical characteristics. Applehead Siamese kittens are generally more expensive than other breeds of cats due to their popularity and the care and notice that goes into breeding and raising them. On average, you can look for to pay anywhere from $500 to $1,500 for an Applehead Siamese kitten. However, prices vary significantly depending on the specific breeder and the kitten’s quality. Some breeders may charge higher prices for kittens with exceptional conformation or bloodlines.
Researching and finding a reputable breeder when looking for an Applehead Siamese kitten is essential. A reputable breeder can provide you with information about the kitten’s pedigree, health history, and any genetic testing that has been done. They should also be willing to answer questions about the kitten and provide ongoing support as you raise your new pet.
Overall, Applehead Siamese cats are loving and affectionate pets that make great companions for people of all ages. They are known for their intelligence, social nature, and striking appearance and are sure to bring joy and happiness to any household.
Applehead Siamese cats are known for their intelligence and social nature. They are highly vocal and are known for their ability to communicate with their owners. They are also very vigorous and energetic and enjoy interacting with people and other pets.
Applehead Siamese cats are generally friendly and affectionate towards their owners and are known for their loyalty and devotion. They are also known for their adaptability and can thrive in various environments if they receive the attention and socialization they need.
In terms of temperament, Applehead Siamese cats are generally friendly and outgoing, although they may be somewhat reserved around strangers. They are also known for their curiosity and love of exploring, and they may become destructive if they do not have enough mental and physical stimulation.
Overall, Applehead Siamese cats are intelligent, social, and affectionate pets that make great companions for people of all ages. They require regular attention and socialization to thrive, but with proper care, they can be a loving and rewarding addition to any household.
It is not accurate to say that any cat breed is entirely hypoallergenic. Some people may be less allergic to specific breeds of cats, including Applehead Siamese, due to their coat type and the amount of shedding they do. However, allergies can vary greatly, and the only way to know if you are allergic to a particular cat breed is to spend time with the animal and observe your reaction.
Siamese cats are known for their vocalizations and may be more vocal than some other breeds. They are known for their ability to communicate with their owners and may make various sounds, including meows, chirps, and trills, to express their needs or desires. Some Siamese cats may cry more frequently or loudly than others, but this can vary from cat to cat and may depend on factors such as their personality and the attention and care they receive.
The average lifespan of a Siamese cat is around 15 years.
Siamese cats are generally considered to be intelligent and highly trainable. They are known for their ability to communicate with their owners and problem-solving skills. Siamese cats are also very social and enjoy interacting with people and other pets.
Applehead Siamese cats are a breed of domestic cats known for their distinctive head shape, striking blue eyes, and long, slender bodies. They are intelligent, social, and affectionate pets that make great associates for people of all ages. Applehead Siamese cats are generally healthy and have a lifespan of around 15 years, although they can be prone to specific health problems, such as respiratory and dental problems. They require regular attention and socialization to thrive and should be provided with a balanced and nutritious diet. Overall, Applehead Siamese cats are loving and rewarding pets that bring joy and happiness to any household.
You want what’s best for your feline friend, and with so many pet wellness options out there, it’s no wonder cat food is a hot topic. From grain-free to raw, there are endless choices. But how do you find the perfect diet for your pet cat?  Here are some diet hacks that will boost your…
Tonkinese cat Vs Siamese cat are beloved breeds known for their unique personalities, striking appearance, and social nature. They are both parts of the Siamese cat family and have a lot of similarities, but there are also some differences between them. Tonkinese cats are affectionate and friendly like Siamese cats but are generally more relaxed…
British Shorthair Vs. Maine Coon, are two popular breeds of family cats known for their playful personalities and affectionate nature. Both species have a muscular build and a sturdy appearance. Still, several differences between the breeds may be essential when choosing a new feline companion. All you need to know about British Shorthair Vs. Maine…
Siamese cats are intelligent, active, and vocal breeds known for their social and interactive nature. While they are generally affectionate and loyal pets, Siamese cats can sometimes exhibit behavior problems that can be challenging for their owners. Common Siamese cat behavior problems include inappropriate elimination, excessive vocalization, aggression, and destructiveness. These behaviors can be frustrating…
Celebrities and their beloved pets have captured the hearts of fans worldwide. Among these furry companions, toy dog breeds have found a special place in the limelight. These pint-sized pups, known for their charm and adorable demeanor, often accompany their famous owners on red carpets, social media posts, and even movie sets. Let’s delve into…
Siamese cat are famous for their striking blue eyes, elegant bodies, and friendly personalities. However, some owners may concern about Siamese cat aggression. This aggression can manifest in various forms, such as biting, scratching, and aggressive play. Understanding the causes of this behavior is essential to address and managing it adequately. In this article, we…
You must be logged in to post a comment.
--------------------------------------------------
Applehead Siamese cats, as their name suggests, have rounded faces like apples. They also have bigger, heavier bodies than today's ultra-lean and svelte modern show cats.
This eventually resulted in some serious health problems both externally, with some kittens being born with ear and eye
defects, and internally, causing cardiovascular and kidney
complications.
This caused an enormous amount of concern, and a
move was started by some American breeders to try and return the breed
to the look of the early cats that came from Siam (now Thailand) to the
West, some time in the 1880s.
These original Thai cats had smaller ears, less angular faces, bigger
bones and rounder, more muscular bodies, whereas the breed today (and the modern show winner) is small and very long, lean, and angular.
In
order to achieve the round 'applehead' look, breeders may have crossed
their Siamese with other breeds - for example, the American or British Shorthair varieties, which have shorter, rounder faces, so it's possible that today's applehead Siamese cats are not, in fact, completely similar to those early Thai cats.
Attempts to create a cat
whose looks were more in keeping with those original Siamese may
actually have gone too far, and many applehead faces may now be too round - it's likely that the cats in those early pictures were
un-neutered males.
Stud cats tend to be heavier than neuters, and have a tendency to develop jowls that make them look round-faced,
whereas in fact their faces (without the jowls) were probably more of a
moderate wedge shape, but from the two pictures above, you can see that the look is very similar.
The term 'applehead' is used mainly in the United States and was originally rather a derogatory one. British
breeders don't generally use the term, preferring instead to
use 'old style'.
Applehead
Siamese are extremely beautiful, with all the personality,
intelligence and loving nature for which the breed is known.
Some of the articles and newsletters on this site may contain links to products I think you may enjoy. If
you purchase through these links I receive a small commission, but there's
no extra cost to you. Find out more on the Affiliates Disclosure page.
If not, why not? Subscribe to our email newsletter, Meezer Musings, to stay in touch, be the first to see new information and pages as they come out, and read the things we only talk about in the newsletter.
Learn more about it on our Newsletter Sign-Up page.
Below you'll find links to some of our popular articles, topical pages,  newsletters and other items of interest.Click the images or links below them to visit those pages.
FTC
Disclosure: If you make a purchase via a link on this site, I may
receive a small commission, at no extra cost to you. See our Affiliates Disclosure for further details.
Our
newsletter is currently on sabbatical but we hope to be back early in
2025. In the meantime we wish you a happy and festive winter season.A list of all previous editions of Meezer Musings can be found on our Sitemap.
Click to visit our Facebook Page
Before you go, why not sign up for our newsletter, Meezer Musings?
Click here to find out more
Home  .  Privacy Policy  .  Affiliates Disclosure  .  Site Map  .  About  .  Contact
Information provided on this website is not intended to replace professional advice.If you have any concerns at all about your cat's health, please consult a vet.
Life with Siamese
Cats does not sell any personal information from this website.To find out more please see our Privacy Policy.
Copyright © 2009-2025 Caroline Haines, Life with Siamese Cats. All Rights Reserved.
--------------------------------------------------
As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
By: 			Author FAQCats

Applehead Siamese cats, sometimes also called the Thia breed or Old Fashioned Siamese cats, more closely resemble the original Siamese cats from Thailand than other varieties of the Siamese breed. These original Siamese cats are the ancestors of the more common Siamese cats that we know and love today. This article will be getting into everything that cat lovers need to know about this amazing cat breed. Let’s get right into it!
The Siamese breed is one of the oldest known cat breeds out there, and they can be traced back to cats bred and worshiped in modern-day Thailand. Although the appearance of the Siamese cat has changed from the original stockier cat from ancient Thailand, some Siamese cat breeders have worked to bring the Siamese cat breed closer to its roots.
Because Applehead Siamese cats were the original breed of the royal Siam family, they were highly valued. Particularly in the ancient period, if you could get your hands on one, that would be considered a significant luxury. They were expensive in their day (and continue to be today).
It was not uncommon for those in the royal Siam family to give these cats away as gifts to those in their families, or to other state leaders.
Applehead Siamese cats tend to be 10 to 12 inches tall at the shoulder, and they should weigh anywhere between 5 and 11 pounds when they are fully grown. Males are usually larger than females when it comes to Siamese cats. As a result, you can expect applehead Siamese cats to be small to medium-sized cats.
Next, you can expect to see the deep blue eyes that are characteristic of all Siamese cats. Then, there is of course the colorpoint that distinguishes Siamese cat breeds from most others. The fur is a light, creamy color; often white. The points on the fur can be a wide range of colors, but typically you’ll see shades of black and dark browns.
As with most Siamese cats, the face is where all the dark points reach; covering from the middle of the head to around the nose and mouth area.
Compared to the wedge head Siamese cat, the appearance is subtle. The Applehead Siamese cat will have a much larger head size. The body is also more muscular than a wedgehead. Rather than the slanted Siamese cat eyes, you’re used to seeing, an Applehead has more rounded eyes. The ears are not as widely set as on a wedgehead, and the tail of an Applehead Siamese cat is also much thicker.
Siamese cats can weigh between 5 and 11 pounds when fully grown, but what about when they are just a kitten? When do Siamese cats become full-grown? Here is a basic growth timeline of applehead Siamese cats from birth to adulthood. In this chart, we will include the average weight of the applehead Siamese cat at various ages; in addition, we have also included what the kitten should meet basic developmental milestones at each age.
The average life expectancy for applehead Siamese cats is 10 to 14 years. However, some Siamese cats will exceed 14 years of age. It is not entirely uncommon for Siamese cats to reach up to 20 years of age. Life expectancy depends entirely on the health of the cat at hand.
As a whole, Siamese cats have a longer lifespan than most other cat breeds.
Other factors that impact the lifespan of an Applehead Siamese cat include:
In general, Outdoor cats are more prone to disease, pests, injuries, and predators. An Applehead Siamese cat is no different in this regard. Keeping your cat indoors is essential to prolonging their life while also keeping them protected.
This doesn’t mean your cat can’t have outdoor time. In fact, that’s something to be encouraged. However, properly monitoring your cat at all times when they are outdoors is important.
What you feed your Applehead Siamese cat will go a long way in determining how long they will leave. Typically, this cat requires a well-balanced diet full of proteins and the right balance of fats. Because they are larger, they will need to eat more than your average domestic cat (although not as much as a Maine Coon would need to eat).
In general, you want to avoid giving your Siamese any kind of plant-based food. This is because they have difficulty digesting them and it will cause more problems. You’ll also want to avoid feeding your cat chicken by-products, or anything with corn, soy, or artificial flavors.
The more natural the food, the better, and the more chance your cat will live longer.
Instead, you should consider feeding an Applehead Siamese cat wet foods rich in vitamins and calcium. More expensive cat foods on the market (those that are organic and non-GMO) will have what you’re looking for. Alternatively, you can prepare your own homemade cat food so that way you know what’s exactly in it.
Cats that are physically active tend to live longer, and this seems to be the case regardless of the breed. Because Applehead Siamese cats are a bit larger, you’ll want to make sure they get active as much as possible. This can be something as simple as scheduling regular playtime each day for 20 – 30 minutes.
As your cat ages, its muscles may become stiffer and its range of motion and reflexes may diminish. A good way to keep them in great physical shape is to get them moving each day; even when they are aging.
Coat
Applehead Siamese cats will have the same coat colors and patterns that other Siamese cats have. This is a pointed coat with a white or cream body and point markings in a secondary color. These point markings can come in chocolate, seal, lilac, and blue colors. Applehead Siamese cats have a coat that is silky and smooth to the touch.
Head
Body
Applehead Siamese cats have pretty much the same temperament that modern Siamese cats have. This cat breed is extremely intelligent, playful, and affectionate. As a result, these cats can often be seen playing with their owners rather than being a lap cat. Applehead Siamese cats are also very energetic, so regular playtime and exercise are a must when owning this breed.
Applehead Siamese cats love being around people and are rather social cats. As a result, this cat is a great choice for families and those with many people coming in and out of their home. Unlike some other kinds of cats, Siamese cats will feel right at home in this kind of environment.
As we have previously mentioned, Siamese cats are incredibly intelligent. As a result, they are also pretty trainable. These cats can be trained to fetch, walk on a leash, and even basic commands. This makes the Siamese cat seem to be more like a dog than a cat at times.
Yes, Applehead Siamese cats do need a decent amount of daily exercise. If your Siamese cat hasn’t gotten any exercise, then they may start to get into some trouble out of both boredom and their pent-up energy. Playing games with your Siamese cat and even taking them for walks are great ways to exercise them.
Like any other cat breed, some health problems are somewhat common in the applehead Siamese cat breed. Purchasing applehead Siamese kittens from a reputable breeder can decrease your chances of getting a sick kitten significantly, so this is very important when choosing this breed. Here are some of the medical conditions and illnesses that can affect applehead Siamese cats.
● Progressive retinal atrophy (PRA)
● Various kinds of cancers
● Lens luxation
● Asthma
● Pancreatitis
● Lower airway disease
● Bronchial disease
● Liver problems
● Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
Of course, you should take your cat to the vet as soon as possible if you suspect that they have developed any of the above conditions. Not every applehead Siamese cat will necessarily develop these conditions, but they are genetically predisposed to them. If you plan on getting an applehead Siamese kitten from a cat breeder, then you should make sure that they do genetic testing for some of the above conditions, especially progressive retinal atrophy (PRA).
Applehead Siamese cats tend to be very active, so they tend to do well on high-quality cat food with a lot of protein. A good way to tell if a cat food is of high quality is if a real source of protein such as tuna, salmon, or chicken is the first ingredient. In addition to this, a good cat food will not have any meat by-products or fillers. It is important to note that indoor cats tend to need fewer calories than outdoor cats since they tend to be less active. The more active your cat is, the more calories they need. Following this rule will prevent your applehead Siamese cat from getting overweight or underweight, depending on their lifestyle and exercise habits.
When it comes to grooming, applehead Siamese cats tend to be relatively low maintenance due to their short coats. As a result, brushing your applehead Siamese about once a week is enough to keep their luxurious coats clean, silky, and smooth. In addition to brushing your applehead Siamese cat’s fur, you will also need to clean their ears and around their eyes as well occasionally.
Siamese cats tend to mesh well with families that have children for a couple of different reasons. The first pro to these cats is that they are incredibly playful and energetic. These are cats that are going to love playing with your children for hours. In addition to this, applehead Siamese cats are also usually very social and affectionate. This means that as long as your children are nice to your applehead Siamese cat, the cat is going to be nice to them.
For families with babies and very young children, the applehead Siamese cat can still be a great choice of cat. This is because these cats tend to be very confident and affectionate, even around babies and toddlers. However, it is crucial that you always monitor babies and small children when they are around cats. This will not only ensure the cat’s safety but the safety of the child as well.
The applehead Siamese cat is an excellent option for households that are not going to regularly be leaving their cat alone for most of the day. This is because these cats are incredibly social and love being around people. Unfortunately, this means that they can develop some separation anxiety when they are frequently left home alone.
This makes retired individuals, people who work from home, and larger families among the best homes for applehead Siamese cats. However, it is not impossible to have a Siamese cat if they are going to be spending some time alone. All you need to do is make sure that they have outlets to explore and have fun while you are away. Having another cat that gets along well with your Siamese can help with this.
Applehead Siamese cats can be somewhat territorial around other cats, especially males. However, these cats tend to do better when introduced to other cats as kittens. As for dogs, Siamese cats tend to do well around them as long as the dog has been socialized to cats and is friendly with them.
Now, there are some minor differences between male and female applehead Siamese cats. Although these traits are not necessarily set in stone depending on what gender of cat you have, this can give you a bit of an idea of which gender will make a better fit for you and your family. Here are some of the key differences between male and female applehead Siamese cats besides their size.
Although both male and female applehead Siamese cats are known to be affectionate, it has been reported that males tend to be a bit more outwardly affectionate with their owners than females are. They tend to demand more attention from their owners as well. On the other hand, female Siamese cats tend to be a bit more independent.
In addition to this, male Siamese cats tend to be more playful. However, male cats can also be more territorial when it comes to other cats. Meanwhile, female applehead Siamese cats tend to be a bit more laid back than males, but they also tend to be more vocal than males as well.
Yes, you should always get your cat spayed or neutered if you do not plan on carefully breeding them. This is due to a couple of essential reasons. The first is that it can prevent unwanted feline pregnancies. This not only prevents these kittens from going to animal shelters but also saves you a lot of money in the long run. Properly caring for multiple kittens can quickly become very expensive.
In addition to this, spaying or neutering your cat can help reduce some unwanted behavioral problems like aggression, urine spraying, and being overly territorial. These traits can occur in both intact male and female cats, especially for female cats that are in heat.
Luckily, spaying and neutering can help reduce these issues. Don’t worry; the other elements of your cat’s personality should remain unchanged after the procedure. Check with your vet to find out at what age you should get your applehead Siamese cat spayed or neutered.
The price of an applehead Siamese cat can vary depending on the cat’s age and where you get them from. In the United States, applehead Siamese cats and kittens usually cost between $800 and $1500 when from reputable cat breeders.
Although you may be able to find applehead Siamese cats from a shelter or rescue, finding applehead Siamese cats from these places will usually be more difficult than finding a breeder. This is because applehead Siamese cats are much rarer than modern Siamese cats and Siamese mixes.
No matter what type of cat you decide to bring into your home, it is crucial that you do your research to ensure that a breeder is reputable before you buy a kitten from one. When it comes to reputable applehead Siamese cat breeders, many of them will test their breeding cats for Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA) to ensure that this condition is not passed onto the kittens they produce.
In addition to this, reputable cat breeders will show you the pedigree of both parents, and they should also ask you some questions to ensure that you will give the cat a good home. Although not every cat breeder needs to show their cats in conformation events in order to be reputable, this is definitely a bonus as well.
Applehead Siamese cats have both stunning good looks and an amazing, playful personality. Their sociability and affectionate nature make them an excellent addition to many people’s homes and families. However, we recommend these cats for families that have people that are frequently at home, as applehead Siamese cats tend to need a lot of attention and love being around people.
My name is James, and welcome to FAQCats!
Along with our  team of cat owners, expert pet enthusiasts, and pet professionals, we aim to write engaging helpful, engaging content about cats. At FAQCats we strive to provide content that’s accurate and fun to read. Our team writes about everything related to cats; even the most complex of topics. Through extensive research and caring for our own fur-pals, we’re able to provide something cat owners worldwide will love. Have a look around, and leave us feedback anytime!
--------------------------------------------------
