Cat Breeds
If you're looking for a cat with a soft voice and a playful spirit, the Balinese is an excellent choice. These elegant felines are known for their gentle, melodic voices, making them wonderful conversational companions.
They love interacting with their favorite people and will happily engage in lively “discussions” about the day's happenings. Balinese cats are not just talkers; they are also affectionate, friendly, and incredibly intelligent.
When properly socialized, they get along well with everyone, including children and other pets, making them a great fit for families. There’s a lot to love about the Balinese.
Their sharp minds and curious nature keep their families entertained, and they thrive on mental stimulation. Balinese cats enjoy learning tricks, playing fetch, and many even love taking outdoor walks on a leash.
While Balinese cats do not require a special diet, they do benefit from high-quality food with real meat or fish as the first ingredient. Natural diets are beneficial to all felines, and this breed is no exception!
Since Omega-3 essential fatty acids can help keep the Balinese cat’s coat soft, supple, and silky, it’s a good idea to ensure that your pet is getting enough, either from their food or from additional supplements.
Balinese cats have a long-haired coat, but it’s a single coat rather than a double coat. The absence of a thick, fluffy undercoat practically eliminates the risk of matting, however you can help your cat look and feel fantastic by brushing and combing them a few times per week.
Not only does regular brushing give you another opportunity to bond with your pet, it can cut down on hairball formation.
As Balinese cats tend to be powerful climbers with an active play drive, you might also consider keeping their nails trimmed. Your skin and your furniture will thank you!
Last but not least, consider brushing your cat’s teeth on a regular basis, or offer treats to prevent tartar buildup.
Balinese cats need plenty of exercise and most are more than willing to seek playtime on their own. Give your cat plenty of toys to encourage play, and be sure that they have somewhere to perch and climb. A cat tree with different levels will help keep your Balinese happy while sparing your furniture.
Balinese cats love their families and they thrive on interactive play. Like their Siamese forebears, they quickly learn to play fetch and they often enjoy walking on leashes as this affords an opportunity to explore the outdoors safely.
Balinese cats tend to be very healthy, and are capable of living to age 15 or even longer. Like their Siamese cousins, Balinese cats do have the potential to develop certain health issues including chronic bronchial disease and bladder stones. Some are born with crossed eyes or kinked tails.
There are two other health concerns that sometimes affect Balinese cats: Some are born with a genetic disorder called lysosomal storage disease, which causes symptoms including fainting, seizures, balance problems, and a failure to thrive. Lysosomal storage disease is fatal, and it is almost always detected within the first few months of a kitten’s life.
Some Balinese cats are prone to feline acromelanism, which can cause the coat color to darken with frequent exposure to cold temperatures. Feline acromelanism isn’t serious as it doesn’t cause other health problems; it only changes the cat’s appearance.
The history of the Balinese cat is a long one, beginning in the mid-1800s, when the first Siamese cats were imported to the U.S. and the UK from Thailand. Breeders soon noticed that purebred Siamese cat litters sometimes contained longhaired kittens.
At first, these kitties were sold as pets only. In 1928, the American Cat Fanciers’ Federation allowed registration as “Long-haired Siamese” and by the 1950s, breeders were selecting for the long-haired genetic trait.
We have one of the first Balinese cat breeders to thank for giving the breed its name: Helen Smith felt that the term “long-haired Siamese” was too cumbersome. She named the breed after Balinese dancers, known for their beauty and grace.
The Balinese cat breed was further refined through the 1960s and 1970s. Another breeder named Sylvia Holland selected strictly for cats that showed traditional Siamese points in chocolate, seal, lilac, and blue.
At the same time, CFA had begun to allow red, cream, lynx, and tortie point Siamese cats under the moniker “Colorpoint Shorthair.” Further development of the Balinese cat led to the name “Javanese” for those showing colors consistent with colorpoint shorthairs.
The history of the Balinese cat – and the Javanese, too – came full circle during when CFA merged the two breeds.
In 2008, the Javanese cat was officially considered a Balinese color division. CFA went on to adopt a single standard for Balinese and Javanese cats in 2010, recognizing over 20 colors but judging them by Balinese and Javanese divisions.
Most registries have joined in, considering the Javanese to be a type of Balinese rather than a breed of its own, but some breeders and clubs continue to recognize the distinction between the two.
On average, Balinese cats are a little less vocal as Siamese, and their voices tend to be softer.
Balinese cats do not originate from Bali or from any other part of Indonesia. Instead, they were developed after Siamese cats came from Thailand to the UK and the US.
Balinese cats have traditional Siamese coat colors, while Javanese or Balinese-Javanese cats have non-traditional Siamese coat colors including lynx (tabby point) and tortie point colors and patterns. All Balinese kittens are born cream or white, and color develops as they get older.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Balinese, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Balinese or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Balinese, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Balinese cats cost between $1,000 - $1,500.
Balinese cats tend to be small in size. A fully grown Balinese cat might weigh between 4-10 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8"-10" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Balinese is 12-15 years.
Balinese are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
I’ve had 2 Balinese cats, and both were rescues! My first, Lil, lived to be 17 and was a very petite vocal seal point. The Balinese I have now, Theo, was at the pound in a cat run with a bunch of other feral cats. He is a beautiful flame point who is the softest and sweetest guy with a clipped ear (mark of a feral cat who has been altered). I can’t believe how fortunate I’ve been to have not just one but TWO of these beautiful cats!
I love my Balinese! She is so cute an affectionate, I adore her daily. She is the light of my life and although she sheds a fair amount it is nothing compared to the joy she brings to my day.
Wonderful!
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Fazlyeva Kamilla, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 29, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Sleek, agile, and beautiful, the Balinese cat is as affectionate as they are regal. Once known only as the long-haired Siamese cat, they were first introduced in the 1950s. Since then, they have charmed their way into many cat lovers’ hearts for their adaptability, chattiness, and intelligence.
There’s more to these cats than their bloodline, though. This guide will teach you more about the Balinese cat, how to care for them, and what makes them such wonderful companions.
Length:
6–7 inches
Weight:
5–12 pounds
Lifespan:
15–22 years
Colors:
Point patterning in seal, chocolate, blue, lilac, cinnamon, fawn, red, or cream
Suitable for:
Families with children or other pets, singles who are home often
Temperament:
Affectionate, inquisitive, outgoing, playful, athletic, sensitive
The Balinese cat is one of the many breeds descended from the Siamese. They share the same sociability, temperament, and color patterns, though they have much longer fur. Happy to chatter and bond with humans and other pets, the Balinese cat is adaptable and long-lived.
They develop strong bonds with their owners, often to the point of understanding how they’re feeling. Compared to most cats, this breed is almost dog-like in their affection and loyalty to their owners.

Compared to Siamese cats and many other cat breeds, the Balinese aren’t quite as popular. That said, finding a breeder shouldn’t be too difficult, even if there isn’t one in your area. You can also sometimes find adult Balinese cats or mixed breeds at shelters and rescues, as families often surrender them due to their talkative natures and high energy levels.
As kittens, the Balinese are slow to mature and often take between 18 and 24 months to reach adulthood. They will retain much of their playfulness well into their adult years and even into their seniority.
Don’t be fooled by their cute appearance, though! A Balinese kitten requires an owner who is just as talkative and doesn’t mind their chattiness. You also need to be ready for impromptu games of fetch or a willingness to train your Balinese to walk on a leash for strolls outdoors. They need a variety of toys, plenty of high places to explore, and a great deal of attention as they age.

Siamese cats are well-known to be talkative, sociable, and incredibly intelligent. As their descendants, the Balinese cat is equally expressive and adoring of its family. They’re only marginally less talkative than the Siamese and are just as athletic and graceful.
Most of all, Balinese cats aren’t fond of being alone. They need companionship, preferably from their humans. These cats also enjoy high places. They’ll hop onto your shoulder whenever they get the opportunity or perch on a bookcase, fridge, or cat tree to survey everything around them. They’re also highly trainable and can learn to walk on a leash or play fetch.
Many cat breeds don’t deserve derisive comments about feline aloofness, and the Balinese is a good example of this. While they can be stubborn and have their moments of solitude, they are also adoring and affectionate. In fact, because of the Balinese cat’s personality, they don’t like being alone for long at all. This trait makes them wonderful companions for young and older families, singles, or the elderly.
You do have to be prepared for a great deal of chatter, though. If you prefer a quiet house, a Balinese cat isn’t the best choice. They will talk to you about everything and will be active most of the time. While they might entertain themselves for a while, they’ll always come back to tell you about their day or coax you into a game.
If you’re looking for a cuddly companion who’s happy to spend time with you, the Balinese is the perfect choice. Don’t leave them alone for too long, however, as they’re not nearly as independent as some other cat breeds out there. They can become destructive if they feel neglected or forgotten about.
Balinese cats are naturally gregarious. This trait extends from their human companions to other cats and even dogs. While your Balinese will bond with everyone, there are still precautions that you need to take when you first introduce them to your home.
You need to make sure your pets—dogs especially—are happy to be around cats. This is easier the younger they and your new Balinese cat are. If you bring home an adult cat, you have to consider whether they’re used to dogs. Slowly introduce your new cat to your existing pets, and go at their speed to make sure the transition is as smooth as possible.
When properly socialized and raised with other pets, the Balinese is just as affectionate and playful with cats and dogs as they are with humans.

There are many things to remember when it comes to caring for different cat breeds. Fortunately, Balinese cats aren’t that high maintenance, even regarding their grooming needs. You’ll need to pay attention to their exercise and dietary requirements, though, along with potential health issues. Here’s an overview.
How much you feed your Balinese cat depends on their activity, age, and how many treats you give them during training. Kittens will need to be fed three to four times a day, while adult cats can be fed once or twice. It’s recommended that you feed high-quality wet food to your Balinese, both to stimulate their appetite and to help ensure that they stay hydrated.
The breed is well-known for their fussiness when it comes to food, and wet food has a unique odor to draw their attention. It’s also easier to warm up if necessary. You can feed them kibble if you prefer or a mixture of the two types of food. Always make sure your Balinese cat has free access to clean drinking water.
Balinese cats are almost always on the go. They love to explore, are incredibly playful, and will happily follow you everywhere. Full of energy, they’ll easily get bored if they don’t have activities to occupy themselves with.
Fortunately, they’re easy to amuse. They love toys that they can play with on their own or with a human. Another pet to interact and play with is also an option. Most of all, they adore games of fetch with their favorite humans, and you can also train them to walk on a leash.
Curious and adaptable, the Balinese is a highly intelligent breed. They’ll happily solve problems on their own, which can lead them into mischief. Their intelligence does make it easier to teach them how to behave properly, though you do have to be aware of their feline stubbornness.
Use their favorite treats or toys and plenty of positive reinforcement. These cats are sensitive, especially to their owner’s feelings and emotions. They like to have fun most of all, and you need to keep training sessions short and positive. This will help ensure that your Balinese cat doesn’t decide to ignore your efforts.
Despite the length of their coat, the Balinese aren’t high maintenance when it comes to grooming. The fur is silky, and there’s no thick undercoat to contend with. It also doesn’t shed much except during the shedding seasons.
A comb or pin brush are the best choices for grooming these cats, and doing so once or twice a week is plenty. These cats love spending time with their owners, and if you want to brush them more often, they won’t be averse to it. Just remember that they love to play and don’t like spending too much time lazing around.
Like most other cats, the Balinese will regularly groom themselves and rarely need a bath. Most of the time, a damp cloth is good enough. Remember to check their ears, brush their teeth, and provide scratching posts for their nail care.
The Balinese are long-lived and generally healthy. They share the same hardiness as the Siamese from whom they’re descended. However, as with all cat breeds, there are a few health issues that they can face. Many Balinese cats are also sensitive to anesthesia, which is worth being aware of if they ever need surgery.
Similar to Siamese cats, the biggest differences between male and female Balinese cats are their temperament, height, and weight. Male Balinese cats are a few inches taller and a few pounds heavier. They’re also more likely to bond with everyone they meet. This isn’t to say that female Balinese cats aren’t affectionate, but they do tend to be more reserved about whom they give their attention.
Both male and female Balinese cats are outgoing, affectionate, and adaptable. They’ll be talkative and willing to follow you everywhere.

While the Balinese cat shares the same exotic appearance as the Siamese, they originated in the U.S.A. They were developed through the efforts of Helen Smith in New York and Marion Dorsey in California during the 1950s. Smith named the Balinese cat after exotic dancers in Bali, Indonesia. Despite their name, their origins have nothing to do with the country or even the dancers themselves. Smith chose the name due to the breed’s natural grace and agility.
The Siamese cat is the parent breed of many of the oriental or point-patterned breeds that we know today, and the Balinese is one of them. Records can be traced back as far as 1928, but these longhaired Siamese cats—as they were known at the time—weren’t recognized as a separate breed until the 1950s. It was due to the efforts of Smith and Dorsey and their teamwork in developing the Balinese breed that allowed these cats to grow in popularity.
Despite the Balinese not being around for as long as the Siamese, there are two varieties. Both share the same colors, patterning, and temperament, but one is more accepted by breed fanatics and judges than the other.
The contemporary Balinese cat is most similar in appearance to the Siamese cat. If you see a Balinese at a cat show, they’ll be a contemporary Balinese, as they are the only type accepted. Traditional Balinese cats are similar to Ragdoll cats, but they are slightly larger with much longer fur.

Also known as the long-haired Siamese cat, the Balinese cat has been a beloved breed since the 1950s, when the efforts of two American breeders drew attention to a new variation of the Siamese. When Siamese lovers protested against the long-haired kittens being considered true Siamese cats, they became their own breed and were named Balinese for their grace and agility.
Although the Balinese cat is a separate breed, they share many of the traits of the Siamese cat. They are affectionate, loyal, and intelligent, with beautiful point patterning and coloration. While some cat owners dislike their talkative natures, others adore their willingness to chatter and have a four-legged, furry shadow following them around the house.
If you’re looking for a cat that you can cuddle and that is always ready for a game of fetch or a leashed walk, the Balinese is a good choice. They get along well with children and other pets and will always be there to greet you at the door.
Related Read:
Featured Image Credit: Fazlyeva Kamilla, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The Balinese cat, a breed of extraordinary elegance and intelligence, stands as a testament to feline beauty and charm. Originating in the United States, the Balinese shares its ancestral roots with the Siamese and Javanese breeds. With its luxurious, long-haired coat, graceful build, and striking blue almond-shaped eyes, the Balinese cat captures the hearts of cat enthusiasts around the world.
Named for the exotically graceful dancers on the Indonesian island of Bali, it is often referred to as the “long-haired Siamese.” The Balinese cat boasts a sleek and refined appearance, characterized by its color points and silky fur. Renowned for its vocal and affectionate nature, the Balinese forms strong bonds with its human companions, seeking constant interaction and attention.
When considering a Balinese, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Balinese kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Balinese breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Named for the exotically graceful dancers on the Indonesian island of Bali, the Balinese is a longhaired variety of Siamese.  It is unknown whether the long hair is the result of a natural mutation or a cross between the Siamese and a longhaired breed such as a Persian or Turkish Angora.
Although longhaired Siamese appeared earlier, the cats did not begin to be developed as a breed until the 1940s and 1950s. The Cat Fanciers Federation recognized the Balinese in 1961, followed by the Cat Fanciers Association in 1970. They are also recognized by the American Cat Fanciers Association and The International Cat Association, as well as other cat registries. Balinese can be outcrossed to Javanese, Siamese, Colorpoint Shorthairs and Oriental Longhairs.
Balinese are medium-size cats that typically weigh 5 to 10 pounds.
The Siamese and the Balinese might differ in coat length, but beneath the skin they are identical. Balinese are extremely fond of their people. They like to be “helpful” and will follow you around and supervise your every move. When you are sitting down, a Balinese will be in your lap, and at night he will be in bed with you, probably under the covers with his head on the pillow. He is frequently underfoot, so he might not be the best choice for people who are unsteady on their feet or use a walker or cane.
A Balinese is perhaps not quite as loud as his relative the Siamese, but he is most definitely just as opinionated. He will tell you exactly what he thinks, and he expects you to pay attention and act on his advice. You can also count on him to “tell all” to visitors, so be grateful that most people are not conversant in the Balinese language.
The Balinese is highly intelligent, agile and athletic, and loves to play. Keep his busy brain active with puzzle toys and his body exercised with teaser toys that he can chase and a big cat tree he can climb. He likes to play fetch, is willing to walk on a leash, and learns tricks easily. He is also a good trainer himself and may be running your household before you know it. Never leave him without any form of entertainment, or you will likely come home to find that he has reprogrammed your DVR to record only nature shows or at the very least decided that your toilet paper rolls and tissue boxes look better empty.
Do not get a Balinese if living with a chatty busybody would drive you insane. On the other hand, if you enjoy having someone to talk to throughout the day, the Balinese can be your best friend. Just be sure you have time to spend with this demanding and social cat. Balinese don’t mind staying home during the day while you go off to earn money to buy cat food, but they will expect you to devote time to them when you are at home. It can be smart to get two of them so they can keep each other company.
Choose a Balinese if you look forward to spending time with and interacting with your cat. This is a loyal and loving feline who will pout and pine if given little or no attention. In the right home, however, he thrives for years.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. The same problems that may affect the Siamese can also affect the Balinese, including the following:
The fine, silky coat of the Balinese is easily cared for. Comb it once or twice a week with a stainless steel comb to remove dead hair.  A bath is rarely necessary. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing.
Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection. Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Like all cats, Balinese are very particular about bathroom hygiene. It’s a good idea to keep a Balinese as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Balinese who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
Except for coat length, the Siamese and the Balinese are indistinguishable, having a svelte but muscular body with long lines and a wedge-shaped head that is long and tapering from the narrow point of the nose outward to the tips of the ears, forming a triangle. The unusually large ears are wide at the base and pointed at the tip, giving them the same triangular shape as the head. Medium-size eyes are almond-shaped.
The body is often described as tubular and is supported by long, slim legs, with the hind legs higher than the front legs. The Balinese walks on small, dainty, oval paws and swishes a long, plumed tail that tapers to a fine point. The appearance of the body is softened by a medium-length coat that is fine and silky. It is longest on the plumed tail.
The Balinese comes in the same point colors as the Siamese: seal, chocolate, blue and lilac. The eyes are always a deep, vivid blue. The Traditional Cat Association recognizes a Balinese of a different type: one with a more rounded head and body. It also has a fluffier coat that is long over the entire body, unlike the show Balinese, whose coat is longest on the tail.
The active and social Balinese is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He will play fetch as well as any retriever, learns tricks easily and loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect. He lives peacefully with cats and dogs who respect his authority. Always introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your cat's connection to this breed and 20 others
The Balinese cat  exudes equal amounts grace and elegance. They have a loving temperament and a strong desire for companionship. They are highly intelligent and playful, and are also known as some of the more vocal and attention-seeking of cats. Though its history isn’t long, the Balinese has quickly become a popular breed throughout the world.
Compared to the history of many other cat breeds, the timeline of the Balinese is not a long one. The Balinese breed emerged in the U.S. in the 1940s, despite the common misconception that they originated in Bali. A spontaneous mutation resulted in a litter of longhaired Siamese kittens, and breeders like this look and went on to selectively breed to create more kittens who displayed the longhair phenotype and a longer, leaner body type. A dedicated breeding program was launched in the 1950s. Breeders thought that the movements of these cats resembled those of the  traditional dancers in the temples of Bali, so this is how the breed got its name.
The Balinese has a strong, muscular frame that is long and svelte. Their head is long and tapered and wedge-like in shape and held up by a long and slender neck. Their large, pointed ears loom over their beautiful almond-shaped eyes of deep, ocean blue. They have small, dainty paws at the end of their long, slim legs.
The coat of a Balinese cat is medium-to-long in length and silky smooth to the touch. In comparison to many other longhaired cats, this Balinese sheds minimally—a characteristic that only adds to their popularity.
Balinese cats tend to share the same or at least very similar coat colors to that of the Siamese cat breed. Balinese coat has a pointed pattern known as “seal point”, where due to a mutation in tyrosinase (enzyme involved in the production of melanin), pigment distribution is temperature-sensitive. Darker pigment is restricted to the colder extremities of the face (eyes, nose, mouth), ears, legs, and tail, while the warmer inner body displays lighter pigmentation. Seal point colors can include cream, cinnamon, fawn, red, chocolate, lilac, and blue. Some cats may also display silver/smoke, tabby, or tortie points with any of these colors. You can find a list of all point colors for the breed on the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) Balinese breed standard page.
The elegant Balinese breed is a medium-sized cat that displays a slim and athletic body. In comparison to the Siamese breed, Balinese cats are long and lean, though they take it one step further with their  long coats that complement the long lines of their body.
Adult female Balinese cats are smaller in size and weight than adult males. Females typically weigh anywhere between five and eight pounds, while full-grown Balinese males can weigh between eight and twelve pounds.
Taking care of a Balinese, like all cats, requires time and attention. Learning about your Balinese cat’s specific needs for grooming, nutrition, and oral health will go a long way toward helping you support their overall well-being for years to come.
A Balinese cat’s coat can be maintained with weekly brushing. Though longhaired, they don’t have an undercoat, which makes them less prone to tangles and mats than many other longhaired cats. Trimming your Balinese cat’s nails and removing discharge or debris from their eye area on a regular basis is also a good idea.
Like many cats, Balinese should be fed a species-appropriate diet. It’s important to control food portions to meet the unique caloric needs of your cat. Balinese cats can sometimes be fussy eaters, so it may take some time to figure out an appropriate feeding routine and type of food that appeals to their palate.
Making sure that your Balinese cat has fresh water available is just as important as providing fresh food. As for many cats, providing a water fountain or water bowl that is in a different location than where their food is located can encourage your cat to drink enough water.
Balinese cats have luxurious fur without an undercoat, which means that they suffer from fewer tangles than many other longhaired cats. Coat care is relatively straightforward with weekly brushing, though more frequent brushing may be needed during seasonal changes when they shed a bit more than usual.
The Balinese is a generally healthy breed.  However, they can suffer from progressive retinal atrophy (PRA), and some Balinese may also be affected by crossed eyes (strabismus). Some studies have indicated that Balinese cats may be at a higher risk for developing an inherited condition called systemic amyloidosis. This rare, but potentially fatal condition occurs when a particular protein accumulates in the liver and other tissues, compromising their overall function.
As for all breeds, a Balinese’s oral health is connected to their general health, so at-home tooth brushing and regular dental cleanings at the veterinarian are important to keep your kitty's smile bright and help support their overall well-being.
Balinese cats have wonderful personalities that make them a good match for a variety of households, but it’s important to remember that every cat is an individual.
The regal and elegant looks of the Balinese are complemented by their loving nature. They both appreciate and provide a lot of affection. They will happily sit for a cuddle session hey should not be left alone for long periods of time.
One of the highlights of a Balinese cat’s personality is their high level of intelligence. They are very receptive to learning tricks and will give any dog a run for their money in a game of fetch. Balinese are notorious for their exceptional agility and athletic ability, so it is important to engage them in play throughout the day and provide them with various toys. Despite their high level of energy, do not underestimate their love for taking time out to relax on your lap.
Balinese cats are highly affectionate and typically enjoy interacting with different people and pets in the home. However, Balinese cats are known to be very vocal and demanding of attention, so they do not do well when ignored or left alone for long periods of time. If they do not get enough attention, it can lead to displays of inappropriate behavior. While it can be very rewarding, the socialization of a Balinese cat can take time and patience, so it’s important to take all of this into consideration when deciding if this active and attention-seeking kitty is for you.
Taking care of a Balinese kitten is similar to the care you’d provide for any kitten. Scheduling wellness checkups and vaccinations with your veterinarian is a very important step when caring for your kitten. After your Balinese kitten is weaned from their mother’s milk ataround 8-10 weeks of age, it’s important to ensure that they get the nutrients they need with an age-appropriate diet to support their growth. When it comes to providing the right nutrients for your kitten;s health, ask your veterinarian about proper diet, including how much and how often your kitten should eat.
You’ll also want to kitten-proof your home  to create a safe, welcoming environment for your tiny new Balinese. This includes making sure that they cannot access the outdoors, where they could be at risk from predators or other dangers.
It's a good idea to learn about at-home dental care for your new Balinese kitten. Learning the best ways to properly brush and care for your cat's teeth and establishing other good oral health habits is much easier to do when your cat is young.
You’ll want to monitor your Balinese kitten’s different growth stages, which will help you get to know your kitten better and allow you to spot changes in their behavior or appearance more easily. This includes being on the lookout for whether or not your kitten has crossed eyes—a condition known as strabismus. This condition doesn’t typically affect a cat’s quality of life if they are born this way; however, if a cat suddenly develops strabismus later in life it can be a sign of a more serious issue.
Below are some fantastically interesting facts about and insights into the eloquent Balinese.
They were named for a different reason than you may think. Although many people believe that Balinese cats come from Bali in Indonesia, they are not. Breeders simply thought that they resembled the elegant traditional dancers of Bali and so they wanted to give them a name that reminded them of that style and grace.
How Big Can Balinese Cats Get? Male adult Balinese can weigh 8-12 lbs. Female adult Balinese can weigh 5-8 lbs.
What Is The Personality of A Balinese Cat Like? The Balinese is a very loving cat that, while quick to lavish you with attention, will require a lot of it in return. They are active and playful, highly intelligent, and highly vocal. Quiet moments are more the exception than the rule with the talkative Balinese.
How Long Do Balinese Cats Live? Balinese cats are known for longer lifespans, often living up to 20+ years.
The International Cat Association (TICA) “Introduction to the Balinese”
Cat Fanciers' Association "About the Balinese"
FETCH by WebMD "What to Know About Balinese Cats"
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
This page is about the Balinese cat breed information and what it means to own one as a companion animal. If you are considering getting Balinese cat breed, this profile will be helpful in deciding whether or not they are right for you!
Coat type isn't necessarily relevant, because most people are allergic to dander (flakes on the cat's skin) or saliva, not actually to cat hair.
--------------------------------------------------
