Looking for a trusted source to find your next furry friend? Our website offers a comprehensive directory of dog and cat breeders, making it easy to find a breeder near you. With detailed information on each breeder and their available litters, you can browse through a variety of breeds and choose the perfect pet for your lifestyle. Our mission is to connect responsible breeders with loving homes, ensuring happy and healthy animals for years to come. Start your search today and find your new four-legged family member!
--------------------------------------------------
LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Thinking of getting a Basenji and wandering if Basenjis are get along with cats?
Find out all about Basenji cat friendliness and how to make your Basenji safer with cats on this site.



A common misconception a lot of people make is believing that all dogs dislike felines and all cats hate dogs. This isn’t true and there are plenty of pet dog breeds that are good with cats. Pets that aren’t naturally feline friendly can also be trained to be much safer around cats.
From the opinion of professional Basenji dog experts, Basenji dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of how friendly they are with cats.



Regardless of the misconception, a lot of dogs and cats can live together peacefully. Follow these simple to follow actions to know how to best introduce your Basenji with a cat.


Not all Basenjis dislike cats, some get along with them. When Basenjis do dislike cats, of the most common reason is quite straightforward. Like all pet dogs, Basenjis still keep some of the hunting impulses that they were initially bred for. This is why Basenjis love going after all moving items, whether it’s a toy, mouse, or a feline.
Because the majority of felines will flee when they come across, it’s simple to see why they are understood for not getting along with each other. Basenjis really take pleasure in chasing after cats not since they hate them, however generally because a quick running animal triggers a powerful, natural instinct to chase overcomes any training or socialisation.


Training your Basenji to quit chasing felines takes some time, practice and consistency, however the reward of not needing to fret about them always chasing after is well worth it. Here are the points of how to stop your Basenji from going after felines.


The very best method to ensure your Basenji would never kill a cat is to raise them with felines when they’re a young puppy before 3 months old. At this age, they will generally wish to play with the felines and won’t see them as prey.
If your Basenji has actually killed a cat in the past, its optimal if you keep them in an open, enclosed space. When taking them for walks try to stop going after dusk and prior to dawn because that’s when felines are most active and likely to be roaming the neighborhoods.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
AKC Breed Standard: http://www.akc.org/breeds/basenji/weeblylink_new_windowBasenji Club of America: http://www.basenji.orgweeblylink_new_window
Basenjis are one of the world’s oldest “pure” breeds of dogs. Drawings and carvings of them have been found in the tombs of Pharaohs in ancient Egypt dating them back over 5,000 years. Throughout this time, the Basenji has remained virtually unchanged. Unlike most breeds of dogs, the Basenji was not created by man but instead was created by Mother Nature herself. Nature selected the animals who would be deemed worthy of reproducing the next generation of Basenjis by a matter of “survival of the fittest”. It was a tough world and only the most intelligent, strongest, healthiest animals with good hunting instincts were around long enough to continue the breed.
Basenjis have enjoyed a symbiotic relationship with their African tribesman owners throughout time. The Basenji would be fitted with a wooden hunting bell that would make noise to drive prey towards his owner. The owner would then either net or spear the prey thus providing his family with food. The jungles of Africa are quite dense and rough in many areas. The Basenji was well adapted to hunting in these conditions. His small size allowed for maximum agility through the brush. His short, close coat would not snag on briers and his tough skin is not easily damaged by thorns. His coat carries no odor and thus helps protect him from becoming prey for a larger beast. His small, upright, curly tail would not be damaged easily by whipping through the brush as a long straight tail would be. His upright, hooded ears catch even the tiniest sounds of his prey. His far-seeing eyes can spot prey over long distances. The jungles are dense and prey may be few and far between so the Basenji had to have stamina. He is classified as a Sighthound by the American Kennel Club but true fanciers know that he hunts by both sight and by scent.
A person must never forget the origins of the Basenji in order to be a good owner. A Basenji must always be on a leash or in a securely fenced yard at all times as his hunting instincts are still quite pronounced and he is likely to dash off in pursuit of a squirrel or perhaps the scent of a neighbor’s barbecue. When the hunting instincts kick in, he is unstoppable and is very likely to dash off in in his pursuit of game. Please don’t think that you can train a Basenji to stay in your unfenced yard either. Five thousand years of instinct cannot be curbed so easily. Being struck by an automobile is the most common cause of death for a Basenji.
Basenjis are a true “pack” animal and desire a structured home where all members know their order within the pack. A pack is led by an Alpha figure and it is the Alpha that makes and enforces the rules. A Basenji needs and respects an owner who is firm but fair as their Alpha. Most Basenjis are naturally dominant and desire a high-ranking position within their pack. If the Basenji views his owner as “unfit” for the Alpha position, the Basenji will move into the position, frequently becoming aggressive in order to re-inforce his new rank. An owner can prevent this from happening by socializing their puppy well with both people and other animals and by teaching their dog to be submissive to them from the beginning.
Basenjis are very bright dogs but this does not mean that they are necessarily easy to train. Keep in mind that the Basenji was never bred to be a subservient follower of mankind but instead relied upon his intelligence for survival. He is a free-thinking individual that sees no reason to blindly follow a given order. It is up to the owner to give the dog a reason and the owner can accomplish this with positive training techniques. The author finds her Basenjis to be eager and willing pupils that learn quickly and have fun while learning. The author uses a combination of training methods with her dogs and has found that clicker training is by far the best method to use with Basenjis.
The Basenji is a very active dog with a tremendous amount of energy for his size. Owners must commit to providing the dog with proper exercise, both physical and mental, every day. A bored or under-exercised Basenji can be extremely destructive. One or two short walks a day is not enough exercise for most Basenjis. Ideally, they should receive a long walk or run every day with indoor play periods also. Even better would be a home where the dog will be involved in sports such as lure coursing, conformation, agility, obedience, tracking, or therapy work. These sporting events are a great way to spend quality time with both your family and your pet.
A question that the author frequently hears is, “Are they good with kids?” There is no black or white answer for this question for each child and each dog is an individual and every circumstance may be different. Most Basenjis do tend to be good with gentle, well-behaved children if the dog was well socialized with them as a puppy. However, many Basenjis simply will not tolerate being abused (squeezed, poked, or teased) by children and may very well retaliate by biting to defend themselves. Basenjis also tend to have very little respect for children; they tend to treat children as “siblings”. While this might sound “cute”, you must realize that a Basenji will try to dominate his siblings by nipping them to assert his dominance over them. For these reasons, the author does not recommend this breed for families who have young children, especially toddlers, unless the adults in the household are fully prepared to spend the time and energy it will require to keep the situation in control.
People often wonder how a Basenji will act around their other pets. A Basenji is certainly a danger to birds and rodents so you should never trust a Basenji around them. Use common sense and keep the cages/animals away from the dog. Cats are a different story. If the cat is bold and friendly, the Basenji and cat may become good friends and play together quite well. However, if the cat “acts like prey” and runs away, the Basenji will chase it. Basenjis will rarely hurt their own cats but they may pester them relentlessly. The owner may have to provide an area in the house that the cat can go to and the dog can’t. Bringing a Basenji into a home with other dogs may prove to be something of a challenge. An adult Basenji may act rather aggressively towards the other dogs at first. He is trying to establish his place within the pack. Many a Basenji has walked into a home and completely dominated Mastiffs or Great Danes. It isn’t the size of the dog that rules, its the attitude….something Basenjis have plenty of. Basenji puppies, on the other hand, may start out to be submissive to the other dogs in the household but as they mature, the Basenji is very likely to upset the old pack order and dominate the other dogs in the household. Ideally, the owner should have a good knowledge of canine behavior to prevent any serious problems at this stage.
Basenjis tend to be a very addictive breed and many owners end up with several of them. Once you’ve owned one, everything else is “just a dog”. It is quite true that they are clean and virtually odorless but they do shed a tiny bit in the spring. They tend to house-train quickly and are usually quiet. They are not, however, totally “barkless”. All Basenjis are capable of making a single “bark”, usually reserved for when they are startled or excited. It has a different sound than a regular dog’s bark and is sometimes referred to as a “fox bark”. The Basenji can also make all of the other sounds that dogs make such as howling, whining, and growling, plus many sounds that are unique to the breed such as yodeling (a pleasant sound), snarking (their version of cursing), and screaming and shrieking (when unhappy).
Basenjis are not the “perfect” breed of dog. They have many characteristics that are unique to the breed that are not acceptable to the majority of the pet owning population. A potential Basenji owner must realize that their lives will be changed dramatically once a Basenji enters their home. This breed is not an easy breed for most people to live with. Are you up to the challenge?
--------------------------------------------------
Medium
Smooth
The Basenji bitch averages 40cm tall at the withers and the dog is slightly larger at 43cm.
High
The Basenji bitch weighs in at 9.5 kg while the dog, 11 kg.
Agility, Field Trials, Hunting Tests, Conformation, Lure Coursing, Obedience
Australian Terrier
Beagle
Bichon Frise
Border Terrier
RightPaw
Looking for your new best friend? RightPaw makes the journey of finding a puppy simpler, safer and more supportive. Visit RightPaw to search for verified breeders, learn about their breeding programs, and apply for a puppy.
--------------------------------------------------
Also known as: African Barkless Dog, Congo DogOrigin: Central AfricaPurpose: Hunting, companionship
Interaction patterns with humans and other animals
Overall care requirements and upkeep needs
Overall health score based on common issues and life expectancy
Overall ability to adapt to different environments and situations
This breed is moderately affectionate and forms strong bonds with their family
Shows moderately high energy levels and requires appropriate exercise
Displays moderately high intelligence and learning capability
moderately outgoing and welcoming towards people and other animals
Shows somewhat protective instincts towards family and territory
Appropriateness for first-time dog owners
Overall ease of training and learning capability
Suitability: Moderate. Requires: Daily walks, Access to dog parks, Regular outdoor activities
Suitability: High. Ideal features include: Fenced yard, Space for indoor play, Access to outdoor activities
Prefers warm climates but can adapt to moderate temperatures. Sensitive to extreme cold.
Good with older children, supervision recommended
Recommendations:
Reserved initially, warms up with time
Can be social with proper introduction and early socialization
Best Practices:
Early socialization required, may chase due to prey drive
The Basenji, often referred to as the African Barkless Dog or Congo Dog, is a unique and ancient breed with roots in Central Africa. Known for its distinctive traits, this breed has been a companion and hunting dog for centuries. The Basenji is celebrated for its intelligence, independence, and, most notably, its lack of a traditional bark. Instead, it produces a unique sound often described as a "yodel" or "baroo."
The Basenji's history dates back thousands of years, with depictions of similar dogs found in ancient Egyptian art. Bred primarily for hunting small game in the dense forests of Central Africa, the Basenji is a sighthound with exceptional agility and speed. Its keen senses and silent hunting style made it an invaluable companion for African tribes.
The Basenji is a highly intelligent, independent, and curious breed. While they form strong bonds with their families, they are not overly clingy and enjoy their alone time. Here’s what to expect from their temperament:
Basenjis are high-energy dogs that require regular physical and mental stimulation to stay happy and healthy.
Tip: Basenjis are escape artists! Always ensure your yard is securely fenced, and keep them on a leash during walks.
The Basenji’s short, fine coat is low maintenance, making grooming a breeze.
Tip: Basenjis are meticulous groomers and often clean themselves like cats, so they rarely have a "doggy" odor.
Basenjis are intelligent but independent, which can make training a bit of a challenge.
Tip: Keep training sessions short and engaging to hold their attention.
Basenjis are adaptable but thrive best in environments that cater to their active nature.
Tip: Basenjis are curious and love to explore, so puppy-proof your home to keep them out of trouble.
Basenjis are generally healthy dogs with a lifespan of 12-16 years, but they are prone to a few specific health issues:
Preventive Care:
Tip: Consider pet insurance to help cover unexpected medical expenses.
The Basenji is a unique and rewarding breed for the right owner. Here’s who they’re best suited for:
Final Tip: Spend time with a Basenji before committing to ensure their personality aligns with your lifestyle.
The Basenji is a remarkable breed that combines intelligence, independence, and charm. With the right care and attention, they can make a wonderful addition to your family. Are you ready for the adventure? 🐾
Your experience with Basenji could help others make informed decisions. Join our community to share your insights!
Unable to load comments. Please try again later.
--------------------------------------------------
