Learn more about these loving companions with their big ears, soulful eyes and hearts of gold

Life expectancy: 10to 12 years
Size: 12-15 inches (male); 11-14 inches (female)
Coat: Short and smooth
Temperament: Devoted, gentle, affectionate, sweet-tempered, friendly
Exercise needs: An hour daily
Origin/native country: France
Originating in France in around 700 CE, basset hounds are extraordinarily talented. Their ability to pick up scents from far away, have made them more than suitable hunters. And while their laid-back demeanour often sees them labelled as lazy, their stamina in pursuing prey has actually shown them to be rather energetic.
Although bred as a hunting breed, they are nonetheless popular pets and that’s generally because they’re loyal and loving. Highly social and friendly, these hounds are never going to make a good guard dog but they’ll certainly make you laugh and prove to be a joy to have around.
Basset Hounds crave attention and human interaction. They love being close to their owners and they’re hugely affectionate – you can’t help fall in love with their little droopy faces and floppy ears. They’ll snuggle up to family members and act like a shadow as they follow people around. They’ll become excited when someone comes home and they’ll bring objects as gifts. But there are some downsides.
“They will thrive with plenty of positive attention but may become frustrated if they don’t get enough,” says vet Dr Rebecca MacMillan. “This could lead to problems such as separation anxiety and destructive behaviors. It can also encourage Basset Hounds to vocalize for attention. It means you need to concentrate on play, training exercises, and stimulating toys to keep them mentally fulfilled.”
Unlike other scent hound breeds, Basset Hounds only require moderate amounts of exercise.
“Basset Hounds should do well on 30 to 60 minutes per day depending on their age and mobility,” says Dr MacMillan, and that should be well within the scope of most owners. As well as ensuring they keep fit and healthy, exercising ensures they don’t pile on the pounds, something they can be prone to do given they like to eat. Obese Basset Hounds have an increased risk of arthritis and they can develop breathing difficulties so keeping them trim is a must.
Be sure to exercise puppies sparingly as they grow so as not to put pressure on their joints and try to maintain interest and provide mental stimulation by playing scent games. Basset Hounds have an amazing, strong sense of smell – second only to the Bloodhound – and their ears play a big part in this. They sweep the ground and stir scent towards their nose. The smells are then kept close to the face by the droopy skin. All you need to do is put a distinctive smell on a favorite toy and leave in a challenging place for them to sniff out.
Get the best advice, tips and top tech for your beloved Pets
Basset Hounds are quite vocal and they have a loud, braying bark.
“This comes as a surprise to some pet owners, given their dog’s small height,” says Dr MacMillan. So why do they do it? In some cases, it’s because the breed is frustrated but this can be tackled.
“The right early socialization and training can reduce the risk of excessive barking,” Dr MacMillan says. “Plenty of exercise and mental stimulation will also keep boredom and frustration at bay, reducing their tendency to vocalise.”
But Basset Hounds can also bark loudly when they are excited and this enables them to communicate their enthusiasm. Since their bark is capable of travelling long distances, it’s not really something you can ignore but you may have to live with that one – often paying a lot of attention to the dog at this point can help.

Basset Hounds are a fairly intelligent breed but they are also stubborn, which can made training a little more difficult. The trick is to start as early as possible and use lots of positive reinforcement while being patient and consistent. Dishing out treats works well but don’t over do it – never allow treats to make up more than 10% of a Basset Hound’s calorie intake.
Be aware too that Basset Hounds can be easily distracted by strong smells – in fact, they were originally bred to be one of the best tracking dogs. So, either use heavily scented items to focus their attention, ensure they’re on a lead (a good idea in general in case they suddenly decide to target prey due to their high prey drive), or train them in areas that are relatively neutral on the nose. Getting them to know as many different environments as possible early on will help too.
You may want a towel handy if you own a Basset Hound because they are known to drool and sometimes fling saliva around. But the good news is they don’t require a lot of grooming. “They are a very easy and low maintenance breed and their short fur means that weekly brushing should be enough to keep their coat looking good,” says Dr MacMillan.
Just pay attention to their ears, ensuring they remain clean – don’t forget they frequently sweep the ground and they can be prone to infection. It’s also worth bearing in mind that Basset Hounds shed but you should be able to handle it.
“They only shed a moderate amount – certainly not as much as some other breeds,” Dr MacMillan adds. “You may experience periods where they shed more heavily though, which usually occurs twice a year.
Basset Hounds are wonderful family pets. One of the best breeds for families, they get along with children and you’ll find they’re very tolerant, friendly and adoring. As well as keeping a watchful eye on kids, they’ll likely prove to be a great, playful pal and they won’t become upset if there’s a lot of household noise either. What’s more, they will also cope well around other dogs and pets, particularly if you introduce them early. You’re not going to have too many problems here.
There are a few common health complaints that you need to be aware of and one of them relates to the fact Basset Hounds are a chondrodystrophic breed, which means they have abnormal cartilage development.
“This is what gives them their characteristic short legs and it is a trait shared with breeds such as Dachshunds and French Bulldogs,” says Dr MacMillan.
The main issue is that this inherited feature leaves these dogs at greater risk of serious problems like intervertebral disc disease (IVDD).
“They are much more likely to suffer from premature deterioration of the discs in their spinal cord, Dr MacMillan adds. “These discs give the spine its normal function and flexibility. Affected dogs can have sudden onset nerve issues and pain, including paralysis. Affected dogs may require referral-level surgery to correct their condition.
Another problem with chondrodystrophy is that angular limb deformities can occur in developing puppies. “This means the legs become bowed or twisted as they grow, putting excessive pressure on nearby joints,” Dr MacMillan continues. “Hip and elbow dysplasia is also common in Basset Hounds, like many other pedigree breeds. All these things mean mobility issues and early onset arthritis is a big risk.
As mentioned early, Basset hounds are also prone to recurrent ear and skin infections. “Their big, loveable ears trap moisture and warmth in the ear canal. Yeast and bacteria thrive when there is no circulating airflow, causing inflammation, pain, and discharge,” Dr MacMillan says.
“The Basset Hound’s big saggy eyes are another problem area. Eyelids that roll outwards (ectropion) or eyelids that roll inwards (entropion) can both cause issues to the health of the eye itself. Corrective surgery may be required for some dogs. Left untreated recurrent eye ulcers are likely which are not only painful but could affect your pet’s vision.”
Basset Hounds are a wonderful fit for so many people. They’re great family dogs, they’re low maintenance and they won’t demand multiple hours of exercise each day. They’re playful, affectionate and incredibly cute and while they’re usually calm, they can also be energetic, which means they’re bags of fun. The main problem is barking and health conditions that can cause worry. But they’re otherwise a great choice.
The Complete Guide To Basset Hounds | Amazon
Using interviews with seven top Basset Hound breeders, this book is in-depth look at what it really takes to successfully live with, raise, and train a Basset Hound. It includes practical tips, tricks, and insights to help any new or seasoned Basset Hound owner.
Rebecca is a veterinary surgeon who graduated in 2009 from the Royal Veterinary College in London. She has a wealth of experience in first opinion small animal practice, having done a mixture of day-to-day routine work, on-call emergency duties and managerial roles over the years. Rebecca enjoys medicine in particular and she is proud to have recently achieved a BSAVA postgraduate certificate in small animal medicine (with commendation).
She writes on various feline and canine topics, including behavior, nutrition, and health. Outside of work and writing she enjoys walking her own dog, spending time with her young family and baking!
Edited by Georgia Guerin.
This feature was last updated on February 14, 2025.
David Crookes has been a journalist for more than 20 years and he has written for a host of magazines, newspapers, websites and books including World of Animals, BBC Earth, Dogs and Canines, Gadget and The Independent. Born in England, he lives in a household with two cats but he’s also keenly interested in the differences between the huge number of dog breeds — in fact, you can read many of his breed guides here on PetsRadar. With a lifelong passion for technology, too, he’s always on the lookout for useful devices that will allow people to spend more time with their pets.
Staffordshire Bull Terrier: This ‘eager to please but excitable’ breed makes for a ‘lovely family dog’
Bull Terriers have a unique ‘Marmite’ look but they can be energetic, playful pets
12 things you should know about having a baby when you’ve already got a dog
--------------------------------------------------
Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share
Click to Skip Ahead
Height:
11–15 inches
Weight:
40–60 pounds
Lifespan:
10–12 years
Colors:
Lemon and white, black and white, tri-color, white and chocolate, black and brown, red and white
Suitable for:
Active families, those looking for a low-shedding dog
Temperament:
Stubborn, affectionate, loyal, amiable, lazy
Known for their long, dangling ears and hangdog expression, Basset Hounds could teach classes on how to get what you want simply by being adorable.
They’re not just fun to look at, though. These dogs are incredible trackers, and their noses are second to only the Bloodhound in terms of power. If you take these dogs with you on a hunt, they won’t stop until they’ve treed their quarry.
Even if you’re not into shooting things, Basset Hounds can make great pets. In the guide below, we’ll tell you everything you need to know about these wonderful, expressive dogs, so you can decide if one would be right for your family.

Basset Hounds are extremely laidback dogs, almost to the point of laziness. This makes them attractive to first-time dog owners, as well as those who don’t want to spend hours a day tuckering out their pet.
However, they can dig their heels in and be extremely stubborn if they want to be. This can make training a chore but essential. These dogs will walk all over you if you let them.
That doesn’t mean that they’re malicious, though — far from it. These pups are sweet, loyal, and loving, and they enjoy nothing more than curling up next to you for a long nap. It’s when you want them to get up and do something productive that you might experience pushback.

The skin on their face and neck actually has a name: the dewlap. The dewlap works in concert with their long ears to help the Basset Hound sniff after its quarry.
Their ears bounce as they run, helping to waft any odors toward their face. Then, scent molecules get trapped in their dewlap, keeping the smell of their prey front and center.
If you need to follow a scent trail on the ground, it helps to get as close to it as possible. The Basset’s short little legs keep them close to the smells they’re following without forcing them to crane their necks. This helps conserve energy, allowing them to track their quarry for longer.
Also, the dogs were bred to allow hunters to follow on foot. Their stubby legs limit how fast they can run, making it easier for their humans to keep up.
While the short legs help track prey over solid ground, they’re not much help in the water. It’s difficult for Bassets to paddle enough to keep them afloat, especially since their bodies tend to be on the heftier side.

While short-legged scent hounds have been around since at least ancient Egypt, the Basset Hound’s origins are much more recent.
They were bred in England in the late 19th century using a French dog known as the St. Hubert’s Hound, which was notorious for not giving up chase until they had tracked their quarry down. The St. Hubert’s Hound was bred with Norman Staghounds to produce a lowrider dog with an incredible sense of smell.
Napoleon III was a huge fan of the Basset Hound, and he owned many that he used for hunting. Thanks to his influence, the rest of Europe soon took notice of these incredible hunting companions, and it wasn’t long before the rest of the world discovered them as well.
The Basset Hound was the 10th breed to be officially recognized by the American Kennel Club, earning that distinction in 1885. While not as ancient as some other breeds, the Basset has been around long enough for multiple purebred bloodlines to be established, making it a mainstay at dog shows across the world.
Basset Hounds are well-known for being extremely friendly and equally stubborn. While those two traits may not seem like they mesh well, understanding the dichotomy between the two will go a long way toward understanding these dogs. They love people, and they love playtime and affection — but on their terms only.
These pups are fairly lazy, and attempting to motivate one is nearly impossible when it wants to sleep. The one thing that never fails to get them up and moving is the opportunity to track something down, but that can be hard to come by in an urban environment, so you may have to improvise.
In terms of intelligence, these dogs are commonly listed among the least-intelligent breeds, as they struggle to learn new concepts and seem to have little motivation to solve problems.
That’s not entirely fair, however. Bassets were bred for a specific purpose — tracking prey — and they’re geniuses in that regard. It’s not fair to compare them to other dogs in categories they were never designed to care about. Still, expect training to be a struggle, and you’ll likely need to find novel ways to teach them.
Basset Hounds make excellent family pets, provided you’re looking for a laidback, playful dog. They’re patient with children and they love to play, so little kids can have a grand time with one. You also have little to worry about in terms of aggression. Little ones will love that this dog is down at their level as well.
However, if you want a dog who will keep up with you while you go on a family fun run, this breed isn’t for you. They like to laze around, waiting for their next meal (or scent trail).
They’re also not a good choice for anyone who enjoys showing off their dog’s obedience training. They’re often stubborn and uncooperative, and you may have difficulty getting them to do the most basic things (like giving you space on the couch).
Their sedentary nature makes them a natural fit for apartment life, however, as they don’t require a big yard to run around in.
Given that these dogs were bred for hunting, you might think that they’d do poorly around other animals. However, Bassets are born lovers, and they’ll accept anyone into their home.
In fact, they were bred to be pack dogs, so they’re most comfortable in the company of other pooches. They love to play and generally aren’t possessive of toys, food, or territory.
They do have a fairly strong prey drive, but their inclination is merely to track the other animal, not attack it. So, your cats may discover that the Basset Hound will find them wherever they hide. But instead of biting them, it will merely bark to let you know that they’re safe.
Another good thing about having these dogs around smaller pets is that they’re quite slow. If they did decide to chase the cat for some reason, they don’t stand much of a chance of actually catching it.
One of the most important things to realize about this breed is that the desire to track prey is totally irresistible. If they catch a whiff of a scent trail, they will follow it to its conclusion.
As a result, these dogs are natural escape artists. You need to be absolutely certain that your yard is adequately fenced-in if you’re going to leave them outside unattended. They’re also quite persuasive, as they can convince other dogs to follow them out in the Great Unknown, even if the other mutt hasn’t previously shown a tendency to roam.
Also, while they don’t really bark much, they will bay. This is a deep, long, expressive howl that’s designed to alert hunters to the fact that they’ve located their prey, even though the hunters may be a great distance away.
As you can imagine, this kind of loud, pervasive howling doesn’t usually go over well with the neighbors at 5 a.m., so you need to find a way to discourage your dog from doing it too often.
Basset Hounds are generally a low-maintenance breed, but there are still a few things you should be aware of before adding one to your pack.
The Basset Hound is a naturally stocky breed, but you need to take care that you don’t let it get out of hand. These dogs can easily slip into obesity, and their little legs just aren’t equipped to handle a bunch of extra weight.
It’s essential to feed them a high-quality dog food. Any kibble packed with cheap fillers like wheat, corn, or soy should be immediately rejected, as those ingredients offer little more than empty calories. Instead, look for lean protein, antioxidant-rich vegetables, and nutritious fruits.
Don’t let them free-feed, as they don’t really have an “off” switch on their hunger drive. Offer them two meals a day, and be sure to pick up the bowl when they’re done eating.
Be judicious with treats and scraps as well. Given how bullheaded these dogs can be, it’s tempting to use food to get them to obey your orders. While this strategy will likely be successful in terms of compliance, the health problems that it can cause are not worth it.
These pups are expert beggars too. They may well be the inspiration for the term “puppy dog eyes,” and they know full well how to use their cuteness to get what they want. We know it’s hard, but you need to be disciplined enough to tell them “no” if you want them to lead long, healthy lives.
It’s the central battle that you must fight if you own a Basset Hound: You know they need to exercise, and they know they can talk you out of making them.
Given the breed’s propensity for obesity, though, it’s essential you convince them to get physical activity every day. It doesn’t take much — a half hour or so should be plenty. In fact, even though these dogs were bred to run for miles, their bodies really aren’t designed to handle that kind of stress. You should limit their amount of high-impact activity, and things like running and jumping should be kept to an absolute minimum.
Fortunately, these dogs love long, lazy walks, so it doesn’t take much to tucker them out. They love to play as well, so a few minutes with a rope toy will go a long way toward keeping your dog in shape.
Scent training is an excellent way to challenge these dogs both physically and mentally. You can hide treats around the house and have them sniff them out; not only will this tax both their bodies and brains, but they’ll love every second of it.
Training your Basset Hound is going to be a struggle, so it’s best to understand and accept that before you begin. However, much of the difficulty that many people experience stems from the fact that they don’t challenge these dogs in the proper manner.
Bassets can quickly ferret out which humans will demand compliance from them and which ones will let them slide; if you’re in the latter group, you can abandon any hope of getting them to do what you want (unless they happen to want to do it too).
It’s important to be firm and consistent in your training methods and only use positive reinforcement. If you punish or abuse these dogs, you’ll only calcify their resistance.
As far as the “proper” way to challenge them, you need to remember that they were designed to interact with the world through their noses, not their eyes and ears. If your training method requires them to keep in constant visual contact with you, it will likely fail.
Try to stay on their level, and give them tasks that are easy for them to complete. They’re not going to be great at catching Frisbees, for example, but you can teach them to roll over fairly quickly.
Bassets are notoriously hard to potty train, but that’s often due to not attacking the problem correctly. It’s important not to give them free roam of your house before they’re potty trained. Keep them crated up if you’re not able to observe them, and take them out every two hours or so to see if they need to go.
If they eliminate outside the house, praise them effusively. This is also the time to give them a treat or use your clicker. Then, in every subsequent trip outside, take them to the same general area in which they already relieved themselves. Their powerful noses will quickly remind them of what to do.
Don’t scold or punish them if they have an accident. Instead, stop them in the act if you can, and then immediately rush them outside. You need to solidify the connection in their minds between using the bathroom and being outside.
As long as you’re consistent, there’s no reason that you can’t have your Basset housetrained in a matter of days.
The Basset Hound is a short-haired breed, which causes many people to believe that these dogs don’t require much in the way of grooming. But Bassets shed constantly and need to be brushed daily if you don’t want your home covered in dog hair. If you’ve stayed on top of brushing your dog, then a quick once-over with a soft brush may be all that’s needed. If you’ve lapsed in your duties, however, you’ll likely need to bring in a heavy-duty shedding tool.
Their big ears require quite a bit of attention as well. You’ll need to clean them out with damp cotton at least once a week and dry them out immediately if they get wet. Failure to do either of these things will dramatically increase their risk of ear infections.
They also need their teeth brushed and nails trimmed regularly, but they don’t have any special requirements in that regard.
These dogs were bred to chase prey over long distances; however, that doesn’t mean that their bodies are quite up to the task.
Their barrel-like bodies put a great deal of strain on their backs and legs, and their exaggerated facial features leave them vulnerable to infections. That’s just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the issues these dogs can face.
Common Health Conditions of the Basset Hound

 Glaucoma
 Skin infections
 Ear infections
 Entropion
 Ectropion

Common Health Conditions of the Basset Hound

 Hip and elbow dysplasia
 Osteochondrosis dissecans
 Bloat
 Thrombopathy
 Von Willebrand’s disease
 Patellar luxation
Male Bassets are generally a bit heavier than their female counterparts, as well as an inch or two taller. Males tend to be more happy-go-lucky and thrive on playtime. Females are more independent, and while they won’t make as many demands on your attention, they’re usually harder to train.

The Basset Hound was bred to help hunters track prey over great distances, so we suppose that it’s just luck that they turned out to be such great house pets.
These dogs would much rather help you track down dinner than go for a jog in the park, making them great for less-active families. They’re also patient and affectionate with children, as well as accepting of other pets.
Be aware that they have a strong stubborn streak and aren’t the easiest dogs to train. If you’re willing to put in the time and effort, though, you should have a loyal, well-mannered companion that will follow you to the ends of the Earth — or at least, the end of the couch.
See Also:
Featured Image Credit: Bill Anastasiou, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
Can Cats Eat Kale? Vet-Reviewed Nutrition Facts & FAQ
4 Homemade Grain-Free Cat Treat Recipes (Vet Approved)
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Cats
Cats
Info
© All Rights Reserved Hepper 2025
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
Dog Recipes
Dog Recipes
Explore our wild world of adorable pet photos and videos.
Cat Recipes
Cat Recipes
Explore our wild world of adorable pet photos and videos.
Learn more about our brand, the standards we hold ourselves to and thought we put into our recipes.
Read up on every ingredient in our recipes and how they can benefit your pet.
Find answers to the common questions we often get about our recipes.
Learn more about our brand, the standards we hold ourselves to and thought we put into our recipes.
Read up on every ingredient in our recipes and how they can benefit your pet.
Find answers to the common questions we often get about our recipes.
Thursday, September 29, 2022 | Behind the Breed
Arguably no breed of dog cuts a more distinctive profile than the basset hound. Their short stature and long ears are as identifiable as it gets.
The breed name is also descriptive. “Basset,” is derived from the French word “bas,” which means “low” (as in “to the ground”), and “hound” conveys that their sense of smell is “houndlike,” second only to their cousin the bloodhound.
Basset hounds enjoy a long and rich history. Records show that the short and mighty breed originates in France and Belgium and descends from a long line of hounds dating back to the sixth century. St. Hubert, the patron saint of hunters, is believed to have taken an interest in creating a scent hound, so he carefully bred several ancient hound breeds in his Benedictine abbey. The name, St. Hubert Hound, caught on around 1000 A.D., and they quickly spread throughout Europe.
The first mention of a “basset” dog appeared in an illustrated French hunting text written by Jacques de Flouilloux in 1585. The dogs in Fouilloux’s guide were used to hunt foxes and badgers, making the basset a perfect hunting companion. Bassets became popular during the reign of Emperor Napoleon III: their sad but regal looks were perfect for Paris salons in the mid- to late 1800s.
Basset hounds have a powerful sense of smell and enjoy doing nose work. With more than 220 million smell receptors, they’re officially the second-best sniffing dog breed. But their noses don’t do it alone; their ears and short stature help! Those long ears pick up scents by dragging on the ground and pushing them toward the nose, and are augmented by folds of skin, or dewlaps, that trap the scent and enhance it.
Those droopy ears and eyes need to be cleaned regularly, and particular attention should be paid to their spines, which can be damaged if a basset is carrying too much weight and gets too physical. They also need a little help jumping into cars or onto the sofa.
While great at the hunting they were bred for, bassets are great pets for families of any type. They are very vocal and highly social around other animals and people and make a wonderful family pet.

RELATED POST: Behind the Breed: Welsh Corgi
The information in this blog has been developed with our veterinarian and is designed to help educate pet parents. If you have questions or concerns about your pet’s health or nutrition, please talk with your veterinarian.
Behind the Breed
Behind the Breed
Behind the Breed
No products in the compare list
--------------------------------------------------
We often get asked at Basset Hound World, do basset hounds get along with cats? As you can see from the picture above, they can end up being best friends. That’s our basset, Bronnie and our cat Lexi squeezing onto a tiny chair together. Maybe we got lucky, because they became best friends! However, there was an adjustment period for all parties involved. here’s our experience of a life of basset hounds and cats.
Basset hounds have a reputation as a highly docile and friendly breed. Basset hounds are generally known to be great with children and other pets. When introducing basset hounds and cats, there will inevitably be a time of adjustment for both animals. Give them their space as required and supervise when necessary and you should be well on your way to a harmonious household.
We got our cat Lexi back when she was a kitten long before we got our basset hound Bronnie. This meant that the house was already claimed by Lexi as her territory. She was quite happy ruling the roost and being the center of attention. When Bronnie the basset hound arrived on the scene, she was a tiny puppy, full of energy. She was small enough to hold in one arm and 90% of her body was ears. (We miss those days.)
Lexi cat was around three or four, so not quite a baby. The first few days involved keeping them separated. This allowed for Bronnie to adjust to her new environment. We allowed her to get used to her new home and take in her surroundings. This was our first experience of introducing a dog to a cat, so naturally we moved with caution.
After a while, we were able to introduce the pair under close watch and see what happened. Would they be friends or would they take an immediate disliking to one another? We were fortunate enough to have it work out okay from the get-go.
Lexi is quite a chilled out, relaxed cat, although she can be quite jumpy and afraid of sudden movements. She never once showed aggression towards Bronnie and the same was reflected back. Bronnie was a basset hound that just wanted to play all of the time, so she always greeted the cat with enthusiasm and a friendly disposition.
It was clear sometimes that Lexi needed her space and didn’t want a basset up in her face, so there were times where we had to intervene. As the weeks went on, a lot more trust was built up between the pair and we felt more comfortable letting them do their thing under less supervision.
As Bronnie grew bigger and bigger at a staggering rate, there were moments where she didn’t realize her own size and strength. There were admittedly a few moments where Bronnie basset got a warning hiss or paw when she was taking things too far, but nothing escalated beyond that. Our basset learned her boundaries and these experiences served to increase their mutual respect in the long term.
Fast forward a few years and they know and respect each other’s expectations for privacy and know when to keep a safe distance. We have cat and dog beds for each of them, but they often decide to cram into the same one! Our experience of introducing a new basset hound to our cat was quite a smooth and organic one, but we appreciate it can sometimes not be so smooth.
Basset hounds are generally very friendly naturally, so when introducing a basset to a cat, you can mostly expect that it’ll run smooth. If you can allow time for the new pet to get adjusted to their environment, it’ll help put them in a good mindset to make the transition that much smoother.
In general, we find that our basset gets along absolutely fine with our cat. However, she is naturally quite tame and laid back in personality. There were moments where her patience was tested, but they generally live a harmonious life with one another.
It’s mostly easier to introduce younger animals, but if you’re introducing a basset pup to an older cat, be wary of how your cat reacts to new arrivals in the house. Some cats can get rather territorial, so drawing on past experience can help figure out how it’s going to unfold.
There are a lot of variables at play, including your basset’s personality and your cat’s too. Here’s a few words of advice on how to make the introduction between basset hounds and cats.
When introducing basset hounds and cats, allow the new pet to adjust to their new home, first of all. It’s important to allow the new basset pup to get used to their new home and adjust to all the brand new scents and scenery that are bound to be exciting.
Create a suitable environment to aid the introduction if possible. Separate the basset and the cat into two rooms initially. This allows both animals to start getting a scent of each other. After a few days, swap the rooms over so they both get a chance to sniff each other out.
A slow introductory period can be advised, just to see how the initial reactions are. We found this didn’t take too long and we slowly increased this to letting our basset and cat get closer to one another and get get a feel for how they’d get on. Keep an eye out during this early stage, just to make sure that they aren’t going to get off on the wrong foot (or paw).
Remember to reinforce good behavior in both animals and pay them both equal amounts of attention. They both need to feel comfortable with the new setup and feel included.
Once you’ve allowed a natural amount of time and you feel that they’re getting more used to their new home, you can probably safely let them roam free around each other. Make sure that each has their own space to hide away when needed. This is needed more for cats. A high, out of basset eye level cat perch can be perfect for achieving this.
The basset hound is inherently a pack animal, so they are well suited to have companions within the household. The basset hound disposition will entail them to stick together and form alliances with any pets they share a house with.
This is why bassets are generally known to be very good with children and other pets. They’re bred to travel in groups and in fact, can often be distressed when left alone. In most cases, they will be more inclined to make friends straight away. This can include enthusiastic behavior and
Cats, on the other hand tend to be naturally more solitary and territorial. They can take a little bit longer in some cases to get used to their new hyperactive furry friend. It’s probably a lot easier to introduce younger cats to bassets than older. Ours wasn’t that young but still
When first making the introduction, allow each pet their own room preferably separated by a door. This gives them a chance to pick up on each other’s scent. Swap them out after a while and they’ll be more ready for a smooth intro when the time is right.
Bassets, especially basset hound puppies will be inclined to jump all over the place and all over any potential new friends. Reinforce good habits by rewarding calm and appropriate behavior around the cat. Negative behavior will naturally sometimes occur, but it’s best to not punish if it’s only very occasional.
Try not to rush things when making the introduction and advancing through the stages of getting your basset and cat acquainted. If you feel that either party is not quite ready, don’t rush things. It’ll all fall into place after they’ve both had as much time as they need.
Consider your cat’s space when bringing a new animal into the house. The basset pup is naturally highly playful and hyperactive and getting used to a whole new world of interesting smells. Ensure your cat has some space, maybe a cat perch out of reach of the pup, for when they need it.
--------------------------------------------------
All you need to know about Basset Hounds
The Basset Hound stands no higher than 14 inches at the shoulder but, with his remarkably heavy bone, powerful little legs, and massive paws, he possesses big-dog strength and stamina. Bassets are famous for a large, domed head that features extremely long, velvety ears, mournful eyes, and a wrinkled brow, which give the breed the look of a sad clown. Built more for endurance than speed, the Basset moves in a deliberate but effortless manner. The breed’s scenting ability is uncanny; it’s said that among dogs only the Bloodhound’s nose is more accurate. Mild and agreeable at home, the Basset is stubborn on the trail and barks in a loud, ringing voice. Although they may not be wildly demonstrative in their affections, they are steadfastly loyal.
Basset Hounds were originally bred in France and Belgium (“basset” is French for “low”). It is thought that the friars of the Abbey of St. Hubert were responsible for crossing strains of older French breeds to create a low-built scenting hound that could plod over rough terrain while followed on foot by a human hunting partner tracking rabbit and deer. Their accuracy and persistence on scent made Bassets a popular choice for French aristocrats, for whom hunting was a way of life.
The basset hound is a friendly, easy-going dog. Bassets are people oriented and get along well with children. Having developed as pack animals, basset hounds do feel a need for company and are happiest when they have their families around. Fairly smart dogs, bassets are not easy to train as they are somewhat stubborn when they have their nose to the ground. A firm, patient hand with plenty of creativity is required to bring out the best in them. Basset hounds have a definite tendency to become obese, which can cause serious problems with their long backs, so monitoring food intake is a must. Bassets are usually described as lazy (Couch Potatoes), but they should have a good long walk at least once daily to keep them fit. Most bassets live to 12 or 13 years. They will love you forever, as you will love them!
--------------------------------------------------
