The Bedlington Terrier is an adorable dog with a lamb-like appearance. It wins the heart with its intelligent and opinionated personality. He is not too small and fragile and not as huge as some other breeds — a perfect dog for the family. It is adaptable, versatile and fearless dog. It loves to follow its owner and be a center of attention. It cannot take teasing easily like other terriers, but if treated with love, it is quick to love back.
Bedlington Terriers were originally bred to hunt vermin in the mines of Bedlington, Northumberland in the North East England. But due to their handsome looks and agile body, they are used in dog racing and other dog sports. They are also preferred as companion dogs these. Many celebrities have adopted these dogs.
Facts :
They are considered good for allergy sufferers. They do not shed and hence are perfect companion for dog-loving allergy sufferers.
Diet :
Bedlington Terrier shall be fed balanced dog food twice a day. It is better to stick to homemade dog food for their nutrition but in case of lack of time, the homemade food can be mixed with commercial products for dog.
Habitat :
Bedlington Terriers are best suited to warm environments with enough elbow space for their activities. This environment should be well fenced and protected so that they do not get hit by cars.
Behavior :
These are quite intelligent dogs. Harsh words or punishment can bring out a stubborn streak in them and hence they need a loving and caring hand. It is quick to bark and quick to chase. They are quite good “escapists” as they can easily go over and under the fence.
Bedlington Terriers are very affectionate and loyal in nature. They might not get instantly friendly with strangers but they are playful, cheerful and loving with children. They need to be taught to get along with cats and other household animals. They like to bark and need a dominating hand while handling else they can turn obstinate.
Lifestyle :
These are moderately active dogs. They can do well indoors but they need lots of exercise to keep them occupied. These exercises can include brisk walks or the fetching game. They are good for jogging or hiking and are happy to relax inside the home. However they are quite fast and need leash or a fenced area to keep them inside.
Lifecycle :
As with other dogs, Bedlington Terriers undergo four stages in its lifecycle. They are:
After gestation, the puppy stage begins and lasts for 6 – 18 months. Bedlington Terriers generally learn to interact freely with humans at this stage and thereafter, they move to the adolescent stage. During the adolescent stage, these dogs grow in size and slowly adapts to this change.
Furthermore, they exercise more as adults and do not provide much stress to the breeder in terms of care. At the senior stage which is between 12 – 16 years for Bedlington Terriers, they become slower due to old age and die thereafter.
Predators :
Humans are the most noticeable predators of Bedlington Terriers. However when in the wild, they fall prey to flesh eaters like lions and tigers etc.
Breeding :
These dogs are moderately easy to train. Like all the other terriers, they learn commands at an average rate. They can be given agility training, obedience training or tracking training. Positive reinforcement techniques work well with them as punishment can make them mulish.
They need regular care and love. They respond well to rewards rather than punishments. They are agile creatures and hence need sufficient exercise to keep their mind and body active. With proper training and socialization, they extract the most out of life. They can be a perfect playmate or a perfect couch potato as per the owner’s training.
Appearance :
The Bedlington Terrier resembles a lamb. The dog has blue, liver or sandy coloration with tan points. The puppies are mostly born with black or dark brown fur which lightens to grey or liver with age. A distinct topknot makes them stand out in the breed of terrier. They are small dogs. The male has height ranging from 16 to 17.5 inches, while the female measures 15 to 16.5 inches. They weigh somewhere between 17-23 pounds.
Also read:
Their curly and fluffly coat is the highlight of their appearance. The court is linty in texture and is combination of hard and soft hair. Without grooming, their coat can mat and deteriorate quickly. When groomed regularly, they shed very little. It has pear shaped head and arched back and it looks very different from all other terriers. It has almond shaped eyes and their body is slightly longer than their height. They are one of the best runners and best kind of water-dogs who can swim for long duration like water dogs.
Life Span :
The life span of Bedlington Terriers differs according to the care, region and absence of diseases. However, their average lifespan ranges from 14 to 16 years.
Health Issues :
The most common health problem with the Bedlington Terriers is the liver problem known as Copper Storage Disease. Some terriers also suffer from other kidney and eye disorders. Although the Bedlington is a hardy and healthy breed, it is a good idea to check all the health clearance before purchase of the dog. The Bedlington Terrier should be regularly vaccinated to avoid any kind of health issues.
Grooming :
Bedlington Terrier needs constant grooming and brushing. Their coat also calls for regular trimming. It needs regular washing, but it should not be washed too often. They do not regularly look like the pictures shown everywhere. That kind of grooming takes professional service.
Shedding :
Bedlington Terriers shed their skins once or twice yearly. Adequate care should be provided during this period.
Bedlington Terrier Classification :
Images, Pics, Photos and Pictures of Bedlington Terrier :

Bedlington Terrier Information :
--------------------------------------------------
Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
The Bedlington Terrier is a quite unique looking dog that's often described as being "lamb-like" and they are renowned for being excellent companions and pets as well as being very popular in the showring. True to their terrier type Bedlingtons are "spirited and game" being highly skilled hunters in the field and remain so even when kept in a home environment. One of the oldest pedigree terriers around the Bedlington was originally bred in northern England but by 1877 their reputation for being extremely able hunters soon spread to other regions of the land. These dogs may look like lambs but they have the heart of a lion.
Today the Bedlington is a popular choice as a family pet not only because of their adorable looks but because of their kind sweet and good-tempered natures never forgetting that these small dogs are terriers at heart. As such they enjoy nothing more than to be out and about doing something rather than lounging around indoors. Bedlington Terriers are highly adaptable providing they are given the right amount of mental stimulation and daily physical exercise to keep them busy.
The actual origins of the Bedlington Terrier remain a bit of a mystery with lots of different versions as to how the breed first came about. With this said it is thought that the Rough Scotch Terrier may be part of their ancestry and that they first appeared in a small village called Bedlington near the town of Rothbury which is why the breed is often referred to as a Rothbury Terrier.
In times past these small terriers were used by both poachers and gypsies to catch game on large estates. The gentry of the day soon realised that these terriers were extremely good at their job and hired the people who poached their land to rid their estates of unwanted vermin. Terriers were also a firm favourite with coal miners not only because they kept rat numbers under control but also because they were great sporting and racing dogs with the Bedlington being considered as being as good and sometimes faster than the Whippet.
There are those who believe that the Bedlington is a result of crossing various terriers that were commonly found in different areas of the country and as such these dogs were given the names of the regions where they were originally bred. This includes the Dandie Dinmont the Kerry Blue and the Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier with many believing that the Whippet too could be in the Bedlington's ancestry which gives them longer legs and slightly arched look.
One thing that is known about the breed is that these unique looking terriers originate from the hill country situated in the north of England and along the Scottish borders. It was Lord Rothbury who promoted the breed being a real enthusiast although back then they were called either Northumberland Terriers or Rothbury Terriers. Although it is not known exactly which type of terrier form the foundation of the Bedlington we see today there are those who believe the Dandie Dinmont and the Old English Terrier were crossed with Whippets and Otter Hounds to produce them.
The name Bedlington was given to the breed by Joseph Aynsley a breeder of the day who hailed from the town of Bedlington and who owned a dog called Aynsley's Piper. In 1869 the Bedlington Club was founded in the UK with the first breed classes finally being introduced at a dog show held in Newcastle in 1879. The breed was officially recognised by The Kennel Club in 1948. Over time these adorable looking and highly skilled terriers have found their way to many other regions of the world although to this day they remain quite a rare breed.
It was not until the 1900s that better breed records were kept because these terriers were fast becoming a popular choice not only as a hunting dogs but as a companion and show dogs too being a popular favourite in the ring. Today the Bedlington Terrier is one of the more popular breeds in the UK for these very reasons.
Height at the withers: Males 41 to 44 cm Females 38 to 42 cm
Average Weight: Males 7.7–10.4 kg Females 7.7–10.4 kg
They boast small but very bright alert eyes which are a lovely triangular shape. Dogs with blue coats have darker eyes whereas dogs with blue and tan coats typically have lighter coloured eyes namely amber or light hazel. Their ears are neat and moderate in size being filbert shaped and set quite low with a flap that hangs neatly and flat to a dog's cheek. Ears are velvety to the touch and covered in fine short hair with tips having a little fringe of silky hair on them.
A Bedlington boasts a long and tapering neck that's deeper at the base and their forequarters are neat with dogs having nice straight front legs that are set quite wide apart on their chest. Their shoulders slope neatly and their bodies are well proportioned with a curved topline down to muscular hindquarters. Back legs should appear to be longer than a dog's front legs which gives these terriers the appearance of having powerful backends.
A Bedlington's coat is another defining feature of the breed being linty and thick but never wiry and standing well off from a dog's body. The hair has a distinct kink in it especially around a dog's face and head. When it comes to coat colours the accepted breed colours for Kennel Club registration are as follows:
Darker coloured dogs are encouraged as a breed standard and dogs with blue coats have black noses whereas liver and sandy colour coated dogs boast brown noses.
When a Bedlington Terrier moves they do so with great purpose and always give the impression of being able to move at great speed when needed. They have a rather distinctive mincing gait that is both springy and light when not moving fast with dogs having a bit of a roll to their gain when they are moving at full stride.
The Kennel Club frowns on any exaggeration or departure from the breed standard and would judge faults on how much they affect a dog' overall health and wellbeing as well as their ability to perform.
Male dogs should have both testicles fully descended into their scrotums and it is worth noting that dogs can be a little shorter or taller as well as slightly lighter or heavier than stated in the Kennel Club breed standard which is given as a guideline only.
Although small in stature the Bedlington Terrier is a confident character by nature. They are full of life and intelligent little dogs that are known to have wonderful temperaments although they do boast having a pretty strong prey drive. They are generally good natured in all sorts of situations and find it easy to settle down and relax after having been kept busy during the day. Unlike many other terrier breeds the Bedlington is calmer although they can show a bit of a "terrier" stubborn streak in them at times. As such they need to be handled gently yet with a firm and fair hand so they understand their place in the "pack" and who is alpha dog in a household.
Bedlington Terriers need to be well socialised from a young age which means introducing puppies and young dogs to as many new situations people and other animals as early as possible. This will help curb their strong instinct to go off hunting when the mood takes them. It also means they would get on better and tolerate other family pets and this includes the family cat.
They are a good choice for allergy sufferers thanks to the fact they have low shedding coats but with this comes a price because Bedlingtons are quite high maintenance on the grooming front to prevent their coats from becoming tangled and matted.
Bedlingtons are swift on their feet which means they need to be taught the "recall" command as early as possible and this would need to be reinforced many times throughout their lives if you hope to let them off their lead so they can really let off steam in an area that's safe to let dogs run free bearing in mind that they are known to be excellent "diggers" which means gardens need to be made ultra-secure to keep them in. The good news is that because Bedlingtons are so intelligent and eager to please in the right environment and hands they are easy to train and are highly adaptable family pets and companions.
Bedlingtons are a good choice for first time dog owners because they are so amenable and people-oriented loving nothing more than to please and to entertain their families. They are particularly good with young children and older people too although playtime can get a bit boisterous at times. With this said they are better suited to people who enjoy spending time in the great outdoors with a loyal and energetic canine companion at their side.
Bedlingtons are very social by nature and even though they have working and hunting dogs in their lineage they have kind sweet natures. With this said they also have a high prey drive which means care should always be taken when they are anywhere near livestock or other animals just in case they decide to give chase and special attention should be paid to the “recall” command as early as possible.
Bedlingtons have a very playful side to their natures and love to entertain and be entertained. They are known to be a little mischievous when the mood takes them and will follow their owners from room to room just to be with them and to check out what they are doing.
Bedlington Terriers are highly adaptable dogs providing they are given enough daily physical exercise combined with as much mental stimulation to prevent boredom from setting in they are happy to live in an apartment. With this said being terriers there is nothing they enjoy more than to be able to run around a secure back garden as often as possible bearing in mind that a Bedlington is an expert "digger" and therefore quick to find any weak spots in garden fences.
Bedlington Terriers form strong ties with their families and are never very happy when they find themselves left on their own for short or long periods of time which is why they are better suited to people who either work from home or to households where one person stays at home when everyone else is out. Dogs that are left alone suffer from separation anxiety which often means they become destructive around the home which is a dog's way of relieving any stress and to keep themselves entertained when boredom sets in.
Bedlingtons are known to like the sound of their own voices a little too much which is something that needs to be gently nipped in the bud when a dog is still young being careful not to frighten them. However even then it is hard to stop them from barking for the sake of it more especially if they are bored or have been left to their own devices for too long.
Most Bedlingtons like splashing around in water and will happily play the fool whenever they can more especially when the weather is hot. However if anyone who owns a dog that does not like water should never force them to go in because it would just end up scaring them. With this said care should always be taken when walking a Bedlington off the lead anywhere near more dangerous watercourses just in case a dog decides to leap in and then needs rescuing.
Bedlingtons are good natural watchdogs and are always very quick to let their owners know when there are strangers about and when something they don't like is going on in their environment. They may be small in stature but like a lot of terriers the Bedlington is a tenacious character and one that never gives up too easily.
Harsh training methods do not sit well with Bedlingtons but they do respond well to positive reinforcement bearing in mind that training has to be consistent firm and fair bearing in mind that if a Bedlington decides they don't want to do something the only of convincing them is to gently coerce them into obeying a command. The key to successfully training a Bedlington is to keep sessions short and to make them as interesting as possible which is the best way of keeping these terriers focused on what is being asked of them.
Bedlington puppies are very cute and it is all too easy to spoil them when young which can end up with a dog developing "small dog syndrome" and when this happens dogs are harder to handle and live with. Puppies must be taught the ground rules right from the word go bearing in mind that a clever Bedlington puppy will always test just what they can get away with. The first commands puppies should be taught are as follows paying special attention to the "recall" command:
Bedlingtons are known to be good around children and they enjoy playing interactive games with the kids. They are affectionate and tolerant by nature however children and dogs should never be left on their own just in case things get too boisterous which means adult supervision is necessary at all times.
When it comes to other pets and animals as previously mentioned Bedlingtons are generally very good around them providing they have been well socialised and introduced to other pets from a young age. With this said if another dog challenges a Bedlington Terrier they will defend themselves even though they are small and look like sweet little lambs they can be ferocious and tenacious when it comes to defending themselves when they feel the need to.
The average life expectancy of a Bedlington Terrier is between 12 to 14 years when properly cared for and fed an appropriate good quality diet to suit their ages.
In general the Bedlington Terrier is thought to be a healthy dog although the breed is known to suffer from a few hereditary and congenital health disorders which are worth knowing about if you are thinking about sharing your home with one of these unique looking dogs. The health issues most commonly seen in the breed are as follows:
Over recent years a lot of research has gone into genetic disorders that affect certain breeds which includes the Bedlington Terrier. These conditions can be inherited from what is referred to as initial random spontaneous mutations and which are typically cause by a recessive mutant gene which can be transmitted by parents to their offspring. Puppies can inherit a copy of the mutated gene from both parents or they can inherit one copy from an affected parent to become "carriers".
One of the most serious inherited conditions to affect the Bedlington is Copper toxicosis another being a foot disorder known as hyperkeratosis. It is also worth noting that the conformation of a Bedlington can also lead to health issues which can lead to the breed suffering from specific eye issues too. Another point worth noting is that many Bedlington breeders now think that Cushing's disease as well as certain kidney disorders may also have genetic links but this is yet to be proved.
Copper toxicosis is an inherited genetic disorder and it is a serious health concern for the Bedlington Terrier. The condition negatively impacts a dog's liver with high levels of copper causing all the problems. There are 3 types of copper toxicosis which are as follows:
Fortunately there is a DNA test available for Bedlingtons and all stud dogs must be tested before being used in a breeding programme to reduce the risk of puppies inheriting the disease.
Cushing's disease is also known as hyperadrenocortiscism (HAC) and it is a condition where higher levels of cortisol are produced by a dog's adrenal glands. It is one of the conditions that is hard to diagnose and it is often confused with other disorders. Some breeders now think there could be a genetic link but more research is needed to find out if this is the case.
Bedlington puppies would have been given their initial vaccinations before being sold but it is up to their new owners to make sure they have their follow-up shots in a timely manner with the vaccination schedule for puppies being as follows:
There has been a lot of discussion about the need for dogs to have boosters. As such it's best to talk to a vet before making a final decision on whether a dog should continue to have annual vaccinations which are known as boosters.
A lot of vets these days recommend waiting until dogs are slightly older before spaying and neutering them which means they are more mature before undergoing the procedures. As such they advise neutering males and spaying females when they are between the ages of 6 to 9 months old and sometimes even when a dog is 12 months old. Owners who have any concerns about when their dogs should be spayed or neutered should discuss things with a vet and then follow their advice because there could be medical reasons or health issues that affect a specific breed that need to be taken into account as to when they should undergo the procedures.
Some Bedlingtons gain weight after they have been spayed or neutered and it's important to keep an eye on a dog's waistline just in case they do. If a dog starts to put on weight it's important to adjust their daily calorie intake and to up the amount of exercise they are given. Older Bedlingtons too are more prone to gaining weight and again it's essential they be fed and exercised accordingly because obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years. The reason being that it puts a lot of extra strain on a dog's internal organs including the heart which must work that much harder to pump oxygenated blood around a dog's system.
Some Bedlingtons suffer from allergies and it's important for a dog to see a vet sooner rather than later if one flares up. Allergies can be notoriously hard to clear up and finding the triggers can be challenging. With this said a vet would be able to make a dog with an allergy more comfortable while they try to find out the triggers which could include the following:
All responsible Bedlington breeders would ensure that their stud dogs are tested for known hereditary and congenital health issues known to affect the breed by using the following schemes:
Apart from the standard breeding restrictions that apply to all Kennel Club recognised breeds there are no other breed specific breeding restrictions for the Bedlington Terrier.
It is mandatory for all Kennel Club Assured breeders to use the following tests on stud dogs and the Kennel Club strongly advises that all other breeders follow suit:
The Kennel Club also strongly recommends that all breeders use the following test on their dogs:
As with any other breed Bedlington Terriers need to be groomed on a regular basis to make sure their coats and skin are kept in tip-top condition. They also need to be given regular daily exercise to ensure they remain fit and healthy. On top of this they need to be fed good quality food that meets all their nutritional needs throughout their lives.
It's best to pick a puppy up when people are going to be around for the first week or so which is the time needed for a puppy to settle in without too much stress. Puppy-proofing the home and garden means putting away any tools and other implements that a boisterous puppy might injure themselves on. Electric wires and cables must be put out of their reach because puppies love chewing on things. Toxic plants should be removed from flowerbeds and the home too because puppies like to chew on things which is their way of discovering an environment and to relieve any discomfort they may be feeling if they are teething.
Puppies need to sleep a lot to grow and develop as they should which means setting up a quiet area that's not too out of the way means they can retreat to it when they want to nap and it's important not to disturb them when they are sleeping. It's also a good idea to keep "playtime" nice and calm inside the house and to have a more active "playtime" outside in the garden which means puppies quickly learn to be less boisterous when they are inside.
The documentation a breeder provides for a puppy must have all the details of their worming date and the product used as well as the information relating to their microchip. It is essential for puppies to be wormed again keeping to a schedule which is as follows:
There are certain items that new owners need to already have in the home prior to bringing a new puppy home. It's often a good idea to restrict how much space a puppy plays in more especially when you can't keep an eye on what they get up to bearing in mind that puppies are often quite boisterous which means investing in puppy gates or a large enough playpen that allows a Bedlington puppy the room to express themselves while keeping them safe too. The items needed are therefore as follows:
All puppies are sensitive to noise including Bedlington puppies. It's important to keep the noise levels down when a new puppy arrives in the home. TVs and music should not be played too loud which could end up stressing a small puppy out.
As previously mentioned Bedlington puppies would have been given their first vaccinations by the breeders but they must have their follow up shots which is up to their new owners to organise. The vaccination schedule for puppies is as follows:
When it comes to boosters it's best to discuss these with a vet because there is a lot of debate about whether a dog really needs them after a certain time. However if a dog ever needed to go into kennels their vaccinations would need to be
Older Bedlingtons need lots of special care because as they reach their golden years they are more at risk of developing certain health concerns. Physically a Bedlington Terrier's muzzle would start to go a bit grey but there will be other noticeable changes too which includes the following:
Living with a Bedlington Terrier in their golden years means taking on a few more responsibilities but these are easily managed and should include taking a look at their diet the amount of exercise they are given how often their dog beds need changing and keeping an eye on the condition of their teeth.
Older dogs need to be fed a good quality diet that meets their needs at this stage of their lives all the while keeping a close eye on a dog's weight. A rough feeding guide for older Bedlingtons is as follows bearing in mind they should be fed highly digestible food that does not contain any additives:
Older dogs don't need to be given the same amount of daily exercise as a younger dog but they still need the right amount of physical activity to maintain muscle tone and to prevent a dog from putting on too much weight. All dogs need access to fresh clean water and this is especially true of older dogs when they reach their golden years because they are more at risk of developing kidney disorders.
Bedlington Terriers shed very little hair which means they are low maintenance when it comes to hoovering up dog hairs left around the house. However their coats do need to be regularly clipped and thinned to keep them in great condition with a nice shape to them. Most owners have their Bedlingtons professionally groomed every 6 to 8 weeks or so which makes it easier to keep things tidy inbetween visits to a grooming parlour.
When it comes to bathing Bedlingtons only need to be given a bath twice a year or so unless they get incredibly dirty and the only way to get them clean would be to bath them. It's important to use a dog-specific shampoo because it contains the right pH balance and not to over-bath a dog which could result in altering the balance of natural oils found in a dog's coat and skin. This could result in a dog developing an allergy which can be notoriously hard to clear up. Ears should be checked weekly and cleaned when necessary because if too much wax builds up in a dog’s ear canals it can lead to an infection.
Like other terriers the Bedlington needs to be given a lot of regular daily exercise as well as heaps of mental stimulation to be truly happy well rounded characters that are a pleasure to be around. The old adage of a "bored dog being a naughty dog" is never truer than when describing a Bedlington Terrier. They are active energetic and like lots of other terriers they like to be kept busy enjoying nothing more than to be outside doing something.
If left to their own devices for great lengths of time or not given the right sort of direction these terriers can quickly turn into a real handful and it could lead to them developing all sorts of unwanted behaviours which includes excessive barking and being destructive around the home.
If you get a Bedlington Terrier puppy from a breeder they would give you a feeding schedule for your new pet and it's important to stick to the same routine feeding the same type of food to a puppy to avoid any tummy upsets. You can change a puppy's diet but this needs to be done very gradually always making sure they don't develop any digestive upset and if they do it's best to put them back on their original diet and to discuss things with the vet before attempting to change their diet again.
Older Bedlingtons are not known to be fussy eaters but this does not mean they can be fed lower quality food because it would not contain all the right vitamins minerals and nutrients a dog needs to stay healthy.
Puppies need to be fed a highly nutritious good quality diet for them to develop and grow as they should. As a rough guide a Bedlington puppy can be fed the following amounts every day making sure their meals are evenly spread out throughout the day and it's best to feed them 3 or 4 times a day:
Once a puppy is 11 months old they can be fed adult dog food.
Once fully mature an adult Bedlington must be fed a good quality diet to ensure their continued good health. As a rough guide an adult Bedlington can be fed the following amounts every day:
If you are looking to buy a Bedlington Terrier you would need to pay anything from £300 to over £500 for a well-bred pedigree puppy. The cost of insuring a male 3-year old Bedlington Terrier in northern England would be £23.22 a month for basic cover but for a lifetime policy this would set you back £45.12 a month (quote as of October 2017). When insurance companies calculate pet insurance they factor in a few things and this includes where you live in the UK and a dog's age and breed as well as whether they are spayed or neutered.
When it comes to food costs you need to buy the best quality food whether wet or dry to feed your dog making sure it suits the different stages of their lives. This would set you back between £30 - £40 a month. On top of this you would need to factor in veterinary costs if you want to share your home with a Bedlington Terrier and this includes their initial vaccinations neutering or spaying your dog when the time is right and then their annual health check visits all of which could quickly add up to over a £1000 a year.
As a rough guide the average cost to keep and care for a Bedlington Terrier would be between £70 to £90 a month depending on the level of insurance cover you opt to buy for your dog but this does not include the initial cost of buying a well-bred Kennel Club registered pedigree Bedlington Terrier puppy.
When visiting and buying any puppy or dog there are many important things to consider and questions to ask of the breeder/seller. You can read our generic puppy/dog advice here which includes making sure you see the puppy with its mother and to verify that the dog has been wormed and microchipped.
Bedlingtons are an extremely popular breed both in the UK and elsewhere in the world which means that well-bred puppies command a lot of money. As such with Bedlington Terriers there is specific advice questions and protocols to follow when buying a puppy which are as follows:
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
Bedlington Terriers, named after the mining town of Bedlington, Northumberland in Northeast England, originated in the early 19th century. They were originally bred to hunt vermin in mines but eventually became popular as a companion dog for the upper class.

The Bedlington Terrier has a distinct appearance, resembling a lamb, but despite this cute facade, it was a capable hunter and worker in its early days. The AKC describes Terriers as “clever, feisty and fearless,” and the Bedlington is no exception. They were bred to hunt and kill vermin, which means they often exhibit a high prey drive.
Bedlington Terriers can suffer from eye conditions, including cataracts, corneal dystrophy, entropion, glaucoma, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, retinal dysplasia, persistent pupillary membranes, and progressive retinal atrophy. They can also be affected by atopic dermatitis, chronic inflammatory hepatic disease, copper hepatopathy, cryptorchidism, deafness, distichiasis, elbow and hip dysplasia, epilepsy, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, hyperadrenocorticism, hypothyroidism, imperforate nasolacrimal puncta, microphthalmia, oligodontia, osteogenesis imperfecta, patellar luxation, and renal dysplasia. Genetic testing is recommended, including for the following additional conditions: hyperuricosuria, degenerative myelopathy, and progressive rod-cone degeneration.
Bedlingtons are known for their playful, affectionate nature, and their high intelligence. They are known to be good with children and can be friendly with strangers, although like many terriers, they can sometimes be aggressive towards other dogs. Bedlington Terriers are energetic and require a moderate amount of daily exercise to stay healthy and content. Despite their playful and energetic nature, they are usually quiet indoors. They are also known to be good swimmers.These dogs are often described as having a dual personality; they're gentle and relaxed at home but lively and fast when engaged in outdoor activities. They are highly adaptable and can do well in various living situations, from apartments to houses with yards, as long as they get enough physical and mental stimulation.Being a terrier breed, they may have a tendency to chase after small animals due to their high prey drive, so they require training from an early age to control this instinct. Their intelligence makes them relatively easy to train, but it also means they can get bored easily if not properly stimulated.
The American Kennel Club (AKC) calls the Bedlington Terrier a "lithe, energetic Englishmen".The AKC also reveals that the first dog identified as a Bedlington Terrier was bred in 1825. His name was Piper, and he was still dispatching badgers at age 14, when he was nearly blind and toothless.England’s National Bedlington Terrier Club formed in 1877, and in 1886 the AKC registered its first Bedlington. The Bedlington earned the nickname “Gypsy Dog” due to their use by the Romani people as poaching partners.
https://www.petmd.com/dog/breeds/c_dg_bedlington_terrier                https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/bedlington-terrier/
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Piotr Zajda, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 20, 2025 by Joe Burns
Click Below to Skip Ahead
“The head of a lamb and the heart of a lion” is the motto for the Bedlington Terrier. With a cocktail of genetics and the essence of an allergy-friendly sheep, it’s hard to believe the Bedlington Terrier is a dog. But sure enough, this breed is loyal and fierce with the most exquisite appearance, and they make great family pets.
Height:
15 to 16 inches
Weight:
17 to 24 pounds
Lifespan:
11 to 16 years
Colors:
Blue, liver, and/or tan
Suitable for:
Active families or singles looking for an allergy-friendly breed
Temperament:
Gentle, alert, merry
Bedlington Terriers have thick, sheep-like coats and small, dark eyes. They have long, hare-like feet and their hindlegs stretch longer than the front. Their most distinctive feature is their beautifully arched loin.
Also called the Rothbury’s Terrier, the Bedlington Terrier developed this unique appearance from the dozens of dog breed genetics found in their ancestry. A few include the Dandie Dinmont, Kerry Blue, Whippet, Bull Terrier, and Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier.
The combination of all of these breeds makes the Bedlington Terrier an exceptional athlete, work dog, cuddly house companion, and conversation starter.

Bedlington Terrier puppies are just like any puppy when they’re born—inquisitive, needy, and adorable. Interestingly, Bedlington puppies are born with very dark, fluffy fur and grow into the spongy sheep-like fur as they age.
If you think a Bedlington Terrier is the perfect addition to your home, you’ll need to go through a breeder. You won’t have much luck finding this breed in a shelter. The best way to find a top-notch breeder is through the Bedlington Terrier Club of America1.

Bedlington Terriers go back to a time when kings ruled countries amidst bloody battles, everything was made of iron and stone, and castles were scattered everywhere.
In 1825, the first official Bedlington Terrier was born in Bedlington, Northumberland, England to mason Joseph Ainsley. The breed had already existed for at least 2 decades but was referred to as “Rothbury’s Terrier” since Lord Rothbury of Rothbury, Northumberland, England had taken a liking to the breed.
But the name Bedlington Terrier stuck, and soon, the breed gained popularity as an excellent coal mine ratter, pit fighter, and hunter.
British elites eventually took notice of the breed and kept them as companions and fashion decor. In 1870, the first dog show exhibited a Bedlington Terrier and England formed the England’s National Bedlington Terrier Club in 1877. It only took the AKC another 9 years to officially recognize the breed.

Bedlington Terriers are mild and gentle creatures, but when forced to defend themselves and loved ones, they will fight until the very end—one of the reasons why they were so popular in pit fighting. Dog fighting has long been a thing of the past for the Bedlington, but they retained their defense and hunting skills and put them to good use for their families.
At home, Bedlingtons are gentle and graceful; that is, until it’s time to play. They love to act clownish, run around the house, and even meet new people. Still, they retain a slight hesitation until they get to know you. Putting their loved ones in danger is not an option, and they take their judge of character seriously.
Bedlington Terriers also make great hunters from their years of catching vermin. They’re patient, alert, determined, and can work independently of their owners. They’re full of energy when in the moment but understand when it’s time to settle down.
Bedlington Terriers make excellent family pets for owners who are active. They do best in homes without other dogs but will do fine with children who handle them well. Bedlington Terriers can also do just fine in single households, as they’re very good at entertaining themselves.
Bedlington Terriers don’t care for other dogs and often fight with dogs of their kind. They do best in households where they’re the only dog. If they must live with another dog, it’s best if the other dog is of the opposite sex.

A Bedlington Terrier will do well on a high-quality dog food or well-balanced homemade diet. If you choose the homemade route, be sure to speak with your veterinarian to ensure each meal contains all the necessary nutritional elements. Whatever diet you choose, it must match your Bedlington’s needs for their age and activity level.
Too many treats and too little exercise is a recipe for a chunky Bedlington. To avoid weight gain, watch calorie consumption and exercise your Bedlington regularly. Follow the 10% rule for offering treats, and always offer fresh water so your pup stays hydrated.
Bedlington Terriers require a fair amount of exercise to stay fit and happy, but they’re not as high maintenance as other breeds. A daily walk or fetch session lasting 30 minutes, supplemented with a couple of runs or hikes a week, is more than enough.
Bedlington Terriers are natural hunters and will chase small animals when given the chance. Obedience training is an absolute must and a great way to keep your pup occupied. Bedlingtons also enjoy agility, tracking, earthdog, and conformity competitions.
If you plan to enter your Bedlington into a conformity dog show, you’ll need to have your dog professionally groomed to meet the dog show standards. If not, two good brushings per week will do the trick.
Bedlingtons have fur similar to a Poodle. Owners searching for an allergy-friendly dog will be very pleased with this breed as they hardly ever shed or drool, although that doesn’t mean that your allergies won’t flare up from time to time, as no pet is truly hypoallergenic.
Bedlington Terriers have few health conditions that would cause concern for proactive dog owners, especially a dog adopted from a good breeder. In general, terriers have sensitivities to environmental allergies and eye issues that should be addressed immediately if noticed. Veterinarians and breeders recommend a thorough examination of the patellas, eyes, heart, and liver regularly to ensure your pup stays healthy.
Like any dog, Bedlington Terriers can succumb to dental disease, obesity, and flea and tick-borne illnesses. Regular tooth brushing, veterinary exams, and a balanced diet will help you stay on top of things.
Minor Conditions

 Hip and elbow dysplasia
 Hypothyroidism
 Thrombopathia
 Certain eye issues

Serious Conditions

 Von Willebrand’s disease
 Liver disease



Male vs. Female
Besides males being slightly larger than females, there are no major differences between male and female Bedlington Terriers.


3 Little-Known Facts About the Bedlington Terrier
1. The Bedlington Northern League Soccer Team Is Called The Terriers
Bedlington, Northumberland has embraced their history with the breed and named their soccer team The Terriers.

2. The First Official Bedlington Terrier Was Named Piper
When mason Joseph Ainsley adopted the first official Bedlington Terrier, he named his dog Piper. Piper lived up to every expectation of a Bedlington. He hunted at 8 months old and lived until he was 14.

3. The Bedlington Terrier Isn’t as Popular in Dog Shows as Other Breeds
Despite its adorable lamb-like features, the Bedlington Terrier rests at 152 out of 201 for registered dogs in the AKC. This doesn’t mean they’re unpopular in the US, but you won’t see as many in conformity dog shows as other breeds.




Image Credit: Glikiri Shutterstock

Final Thoughts
Bedlington Terriers are true family dogs that offer years of love, play, and protection. This breed truly has the best of both worlds with being gentle like a lamp and fierce like a lion. Bedlingtons make excellent family pets for active homes and will never let their judge of character misguide them. If you’re looking for an allergy-friendly dog but don’t want a Poodle hybrid, this could be the dog for you.
 Sources

https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/bedlington-terrier/
https://www.bedlingtonamerica.com/

 

Featured Image Credit: Piotr Zajda, Shutterstock
           How useful was this post?               Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)                                 Submit Rating                  Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!       Your feedback really matters.          What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?            Submit Feedback



Besides males being slightly larger than females, there are no major differences between male and female Bedlington Terriers.

Bedlington, Northumberland has embraced their history with the breed and named their soccer team The Terriers.
When mason Joseph Ainsley adopted the first official Bedlington Terrier, he named his dog Piper. Piper lived up to every expectation of a Bedlington. He hunted at 8 months old and lived until he was 14.
Despite its adorable lamb-like features, the Bedlington Terrier rests at 152 out of 201 for registered dogs in the AKC. This doesn’t mean they’re unpopular in the US, but you won’t see as many in conformity dog shows as other breeds.

Bedlington Terriers are true family dogs that offer years of love, play, and protection. This breed truly has the best of both worlds with being gentle like a lamp and fierce like a lion. Bedlingtons make excellent family pets for active homes and will never let their judge of character misguide them. If you’re looking for an allergy-friendly dog but don’t want a Poodle hybrid, this could be the dog for you.
Sources

https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/bedlington-terrier/
https://www.bedlingtonamerica.com/

 

Featured Image Credit: Piotr Zajda, Shutterstock
           How useful was this post?               Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)                                 Submit Rating                  Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!       Your feedback really matters.          What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?            Submit Feedback

Featured Image Credit: Piotr Zajda, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Cassidy is a vet tech and professional  pet sitter  turned pet writer whose passion is all things animals, both domestic and wild. She’s had a multitude of pets over the years and loves writing about the animal-human bond. She and her husband now live in Wichita with a 
German Shepherd  named Raven, two cats, Lucy & Strudel, and a few backyard chicks.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
-

Known for their distinctive appearance, Bedlington Terriers are a unique breed of Terrier. They typically weigh between 17 to 23 pounds and stand at an average height of 15.5 to 16.5 inches. With their elegant features, slender build, and thin head, these Terriers have a special charm. Their coat, arched back, and tasseled ears add to their distinct look. Despite their appearance, Bedlington Terriers have a kind expression on their faces and are neither timid nor anxious. They are known to be lovely, entertaining, and devoted members of the family.
Bedlington Terriers possess the typical energy of a Terrier and the agility of a small coursing Hound. They are highly active and have great endurance. These dogs are responsive to training and generally get along well with children and other dogs, as long as they are closely supervised. While they are generally considered a healthy breed, some Bedlington Terriers may experience copper toxicosis. Their non-shedding coat requires regular grooming with clippers to maintain its shape.
Below, we look at Bedlington Terrier dog breed, its history, personality, pros and cons of owning an Bedlington Terrier, characteristics, and must-know facts. We will also examine how to care for this breed and a lot more. Prepare for a tail-wagging adventure into the world of Bedlington Terriers!
The Bedlington Terrier is believed to have originated from breeds like the Dandie Dinmont and the Otterhound, but its exact origin is unclear. In the late 1700s, a type of Terrier known as the Rothbury Terrier or Northumberland Fox Terrier was developed for hunting in the north of England. Joseph Ainsley, a resident of Bedlington, bred two Rothbury Terriers in 1825, resulting in the creation of the Bedlington Terrier. Although there are suggestions that breeds like the Whippet were occasionally crossed with the Bedlington Terrier, there are no available records to confirm this.
The Bedlington Terrier was highly skilled in hunting various game such as rabbits, otters, foxes, badgers, and rats. Its agility and hunting abilities caught the attention of local squires, who started keeping their own Bedlington Terriers. Eventually, the breed gained popularity and began to be shown in the late 19th century, finding its place in wealthy households. The Bedlington Terrier’s popularity transcended social boundaries, and by the mid-1800s, they were participating in dog shows. The National Bedlington Terrier Club was formed in England in 1877, and the American Kennel Club registered its first Bedlington Terrier, Ananias, in 1886.

⚡ Fun Fact: Bedlington Terrier dogs are a social breed. They enjoy being around people or other animals. This breed doesn’t tolerate being left alone.
Bedlington Terriers are often believed to be calm house dogs and are thought to be sociable and loyal. Dogs of this breed often don’t start fights, but they also aren’t scared of other dogs. This vivacious Terrier is prone to chasing small animals when outside, but when properly socialized with indoor pets, they get along with them. They normally enjoy spending time with kids and are often sociable to strangers when they are loved and treated as a member of the family.
Bedlington Terrier dogs are known for getting along well with other pets, making them a suitable choice for families with multiple animals. They are also friendly towards strangers, making them approachable and sociable dogs. Bedlington Terriers are particularly good with children, making them a great breed for families with kids. They have an average level of friendliness towards cats and are generally dog-friendly, which makes them a good fit for households with other dogs or for those interested in participating in dog meetups. Additionally, Bedlington Terriers are often recommended for elderly individuals, as they can provide companionship and are generally well-suited for a more relaxed lifestyle.
This breed is known for being:
The Bedlington Terrier has little to no shedding, making it a suitable choice for allergy sufferers. Clipping is necessary almost every month and a half, thus grooming is considerable. This breed of dog requires twice-weekly combing and frequent cleaning of the ears’ inside to prevent infection. The Bedlington Terrier’s coat can get dull if cleaned too regularly, but its skin won’t dry out with frequent bathing. This energetic dog needs daily exercise because it helps him release some of his pent-up energy. This might involve taking a lengthy stroll or letting the dog run free inside a fence. This inquisitive dog may cause trouble if not given enough exercise.
Bedlington Terrier dogs have a very low shedding level, meaning they do not lose much hair. This is great news for those who are concerned about their furniture or car getting covered in dog hair. If you have a Bedlington Terrier puppy, you can relax knowing that you won’t have to constantly clean up after them. These dogs are an ideal choice for people who cannot tolerate dog hair.
In addition to their minimal shedding, Bedlington Terriers also have specific bathing needs. It is recommended to give them a bath every 3-4 weeks. This regular bathing routine helps to keep their coat clean and healthy. By following this bathing schedule, you can ensure that your Bedlington Terrier looks and feels great.
Overall, if you are looking for a dog that sheds very little and requires bathing every few weeks, a Bedlington Terrier could be the perfect choice for you. Their low shedding nature and specific bathing needs make them a great option for individuals who want a clean and low-maintenance pet.
🍖 Food: We recommend 2.5 cups daily, costing you about $1.20 – $1.40 daily, or around $34.00 – $45.00 a month.
🐾 Exercise: Bedlington Terrier dogs have an average exercise need. This breed is satisfied with short walks every weekday and a long ones on weekends.
This dog breed requires to be walked for roughly 6 miles per week, which equates to about 45 minutes of physical activity daily. This consistent moderate exercise regimen will help maintain their physical wellness and significantly contribute to their mental stimulation. Consciously setting aside this time for your furry friend can dramatically enhance their life quality, helping them stay energetic, healthy, and mentally alert.
Did you know: Bedlington Terrier dogs have a higher energy level than other dog breeds. If you want a dog for snuggling on the couch, this breed isn’t the perfect choice for you.
Some of the major concerns for Bedlington Terrier Dog Breed can be:
While minor concerns include:
🤧 Important: Is Bedlington Terrier hypoallergenic? Yes.
✨ Bonus: Check out cool, creative, and funny names for Bedlington Terrier.
What makes the Bedlington Terrier a great choice for families with young children?
 The Bedlington Terrier’s gentle nature and loyalty make it a great choice for families with young children. They are known to be friendly and get along well with children, making them a suitable companion for kids.
Is the Bedlington Terrier breed considered a suitable breed for apartment living?
 Yes, the Bedlington Terrier breed is considered suitable for apartment living. They are generally quiet house dogs and do not require a large amount of space to be happy. However, they still need regular exercise to keep them mentally and physically stimulated.
How much exercise does a Bedlington Terrier require compared to other breeds?
 Bedlington Terriers require a moderate amount of exercise compared to some other breeds. They have great endurance and are very active, but they do not need excessive amounts of exercise. Regular walks and playtime should be sufficient to keep them happy and healthy.
Is the Bedlington Terrier breed known for being good with other pets?
 Bedlington Terriers are generally good with other pets when they are appropriately socialized. They can get along well with indoor pets, including cats, if introduced properly. However, their natural hunting instincts may lead them to chase small animals when outside.
What are other low-maintenance dog breeds similar to the Bedlington Terrier?
 Some low-maintenance dog breeds similar to the Bedlington Terrier include the Bichon Frise, Chinese Crested, and Portuguese Water Dog. These breeds also have non-shedding coats and require regular grooming to maintain their appearance.
What are the common health issues that Bedlington Terriers are prone to?
 Bedlington Terriers are generally a healthy breed, but they are prone to a condition called copper toxicosis. This is a genetic disorder that affects their liver’s ability to metabolize copper, leading to copper buildup and potential liver damage. Regular veterinary check-ups and a proper diet can help manage this condition.
Are Bedlington Terriers known to be easy to train compared to other breeds?
 Bedlington Terriers are known to be intelligent and responsive, making them relatively easy to train compared to some other breeds. They have a desire to please their owners and generally respond well to positive reinforcement training methods.
Are Bedlington Terriers more prone to separation anxiety compared to other breeds?
 Bedlington Terriers, like any breed, can experience separation anxiety if not properly trained and socialized. However, they are not known to be particularly prone to separation anxiety compared to other breeds. Proper training and gradually increasing alone time can help prevent or manage separation anxiety.
Are there any dog breeds similar to the Bedlington Terrier that are suitable for people with allergies?
 Yes, there are other dog breeds similar to the Bedlington Terrier that are suitable for people with allergies. These include the Bichon Frise, Poodle, and Portuguese Water Dog, all of which have non-shedding coats that produce less dander, making them hypoallergenic.
What sizes of dogs similar to the Bedlington Terrier are best for individuals or families with limited space?
 Small-sized dogs similar to the Bedlington Terrier, such as the Bichon Frise, Maltese, and Cavalier King Charles Spaniel, are best for individuals or families with limited space. These breeds do well in apartments or smaller living spaces.
Is the Bedlington Terrier breed known to be good with children with special needs?
 Bedlington Terriers can be good with children with special needs, as they are generally gentle and patient. However, as with any dog, it is important to supervise interactions between the dog and the child to ensure safety and proper behavior.
How does the grooming and shedding needs of the Bedlington Terrier?
 The grooming needs of Bedlington Terriers are higher compared to some other breeds. They have a non-shedding single coat that requires regular brushing, clipping, and scissoring to maintain its appearance. Professional grooming may be necessary to keep their coat in good condition.
We use reliable and publicly available data and resources such as AKC and American Canine Registry to ensure that Bedlington Terrier dog breed information is accurate and up to date. If you spot an error, please don’t hesitate to bring it to our attention.
--------------------------------------------------
