Cat Breeds
With exotic looks to match its name, the Bengal cat originated as a cross between the Asian leopard cat and a domesticated cat. A number of breeds were used in the Bengal cat's development, including the Egyptian Mau, Ocicat, Abyssinian, Burmese, American Shorthair, and domestic shorthair cats. These days, members of the Bengal cat breed are the product of a cross between two purebred Bengal cats.
Playful and active, Bengal cats are excellent pets. Quite a bit less standoffish then some other wildcat hybrids, these incredible cats enjoy affection and develop close bonds with their family members. Although they might be up for a cuddle now and then, Bengal cats are anything but couch potatoes. This highly active breed needs a lot of daily activity and play to thrive.
Bengal cats love to climb and like their wild, jungle-dwelling cousins, they seek high vantage points from which to view their domain. Curious, they like to be in the middle of everything and they enjoy learning how things work.
Bengal cats are notorious for opening doors, activating light switches, flushing toilets, emptying cupboards, and more. They are eager to learn tricks, and thanks to their high level of intelligence, they’re very easy to train. Try teaching your Bengal cat "sit" and "shake paw," and games like fetch.
Just like their wild cousins, Bengal cats need a diet that focuses on meat, particularly if they are members of the first three generations. Most commercial kibble is not really suitable for Bengals, as it is too high in carbohydrates. High-quality canned, fresh or raw food is a good choice as it generally has a higher meat content.
While Bengal cats are perfectly capable of grooming themselves, they appreciate attention and will enjoy brushing on a regular basis. Teach your cat to accept nail trimming from a young age, and brush their teeth daily.
Bengal cats need lots of exercise—far more than the average cat. Although most cats spend most of their time asleep, these frisky felines require numerous play sessions every day, particularly during their first few years of life.
When we say that Bengal cats are high-energy, we mean it. These cats have a reputation for zooming through the house, jumping on furniture, and not stopping until they've made several laps. Interactive play is absolutely essential to your cat's well-being and it'll help save your furnishings, too.
Teaser toys, lasers, and battery-operated cat toys that encourage energetic play are absolute essentials. Make sure your cat has more than one scratching post and be sure to treat them to a tall cat tower that satisfies their natural need to climb. Some Bengal owners use exercise wheels. Much like hamster wheels, these allow your Bengal cat to safely exercise indoors. The more you "catify" your house, the better.
Bengals are often happy to walk on a leash, as they have a built-in need to explore. If you adopt a Bengal kitten, teach them how to walk on a harness and leash from a young age if you’d like to enjoy this activity together. Safe outdoor exploration offers the ideal opportunity for exercise and stimulates your cat's inquisitive mind.
Like many cat breeds, Bengals do have the potential to develop some known health issues. Eye problems such as cataracts and progressive retinal atrophy (PRA) are concerns and might develop as a Bengal cat ages. The hereditary form of PRA is not limited to older cats, though. It sometimes occurs in kittens with symptoms beginning at an age as young as 12 weeks. PRA causes blindness and there is no known cure.
Some Bengal kittens are born with flat-chested kitten syndrome. This is normally caught by the breeder and with treatment, these cats can go on to live healthy lives.
Bengals might develop patellar luxation, a joint disorder that causes the kneecaps to slip to one side. This affects mobility and may cause discomfort, particularly later in life.
A small percentage of Bengal cats develop a form of enlarged heart called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). It’s worth noting that this is a hereditary disease and while breeders can have their cats tested for heart murmurs, it is impossible to predict whether future generations will have HCM. There is no such thing as an HCM-free breeding line.
Cat fanciers began experimenting with Asian Leopard cat hybridization more than 200 years ago, but the Bengal cat we know and love today didn’t emerge until the 1960s, when Dr. Willard Centerwall of Loma Linda University began hybridizing Asian Leopard cats to see whether they would pass their immunity to feline leukemia on to hybrid offspring. While immunity wasn’t passed on, something great did result from those early experiments: the beginnings of a future new cat breed.
It took decades for Bengal cats to become standardized. In 1980, Dr. Centerwall sent some of his Bengal cats to Jean Mill, who wanted to decrease the desire for fur as a fashion statement by popularizing domestic cats with exotic looks. At the same time, she hoped to reduce the demand for illegal trafficking in wild cats for the pet industry.
The breed was further developed with the addition of Tory of Delhi, a domestic street cat that was imported from India. Other breeders discovered that Egyptian Mau cats were excellent candidates for pairing with Asian Leopard cats, with the cross resulting in beautiful spotted Bengals.
The International Cat Association (TICA) recognized Bengal cats as an experimental breed in 1983, and full recognition was gained in 1993. The Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) granted the Bengal breed its official recognition in 2016.
Bengal cats love to play in water, and will go to great lengths to get wet. They're famous for joining their owners in the shower, and if given the opportunity they'll jump right into a sink or bathtub full of water.
The Bengal cat is the only domestic cat breed CFA allows to display rosettes in its coat. These cat's coats bear a strong resemblance to jaguars, ocelots, and leopards coats.
First-generation Bengals, called F1, have one Asian Leopard cat parent and one domestic cat parent. An F2 Bengal is second generation, F3 is third generation, F4 is fourth, and so on.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Bengal, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Bengal or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Bengal, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Bengal cats cost between $1,500 - $3,000.
Bengal cats tend to be large in size. A fully grown Bengal cat might weigh between 6-15 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 13"-16" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Bengal is 12-20 years.
Bengal are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
I’m babysitting my ex sister in law’s Bengal cat and man is he something. His name is Slim and I have never seen a cat with such long legs (like stilts lol) and here in the last couple of months the jungle Kitty has come out! This cat doesn’t jump he leaps and sail’s through the air! Never seen anything like it and he climbs on everything and I mean everything and I’m trying to teach him to stop climbing on my stands that has pictures and decorations on cause he’s breaking thing’s and teaching my other two cats that they can do it (which they know better) oh and my refrigerator also. Any suggestions on how to get him to stop doing it? Been raised with cats have always owned cats but never this breed.
I have to say a friend has a beautiful Bengal.  She is a gorgeous deep copper color thus her name Penny.  It was my first experience with a Bengal.  Yes, her fur soft, silky and shiny.  She is like a dog and follows him to the door when company comes.  She loves water and will play in it.  She truly is more like a dog than any cat I’ve known.  She is very sociable to all who confronts her.  I was unable to afford a Bengal and eventually adopted and rescued a Tuxedo black and white at 6 weeks.  Recently a Tabby who was found under a wood pile.  Six weeks old and sick with goopy eyes and covered with fleas.  She could not see when found.  Vet cleared it all up and with continued ointment to the eyes and flea treatment she is healthy and active.  I love cats whether or not they are Bengal or alley cats.  I would not trade these two for anything now.
Great sentiments! Thank you for sharing!
I adopted a 5 year old female who is on the small side- she is 9 lbs and just a sweetheart ! Her parents were getting a divorce and she had a really hard adjustment to her new home- she hid for about a month, coming out to eat and get used to her new environment. She is indoors only with occasional supervised visits out on the deck. She is a one woman cat who will go to my husband in my absence.  Her darling nature and beautiful green eyes have totally won my heart. She is not what you would call a lap cat- which I like- but very very cuddly in the morning and frisky and playful during the day. What a gift she has been to me! She is her own little self! I love this Bengal baby. She has lived with me for 3 years now. She sleeps with us in bed most nights.
Her parents were getting divorced? Cats really have been becoming more and more human-like, haven’t they? 🙂 Your kitty sounds wonderful. Thank you for sharing!
My Timmy is 8months old. When standing,. With his heind feet on the ground his head is parallel to my waist, he is noticeably thick and heavy. Is he still growing? Should I ease up on his meals? I’m giving him 3oz of werverna wet for breakfast & 1/2 cup orjen kitty dry to nibble on.. Any thoughts?
Timothy, I would try cutting out the Orijen kitten food and monitoring his meals a bit more closely—while he is still growing, the dry food might be too dense and not satisfying enough, which is altering the way he thinks about his own feeling of fullness and causing him to take in more calories than he needs.
To be clear:
TRUE BENGAL HISTORY Because of the Asian Leopard Cats natural immunity to FeLV, (feline leukemia virus) a scientist named Dr. Willard Centerwall, at Loma Linda University, in 1963, was breeding hybrid asian leopard cats in order to study their leukemia heredity factors which could help in understanding and combating leukemia IN HUMAN BEINGS.
But he only needed their genetic samples, and once he bred the cats they needed homes. In 1980, that is how Mrs. jean mill received an f1 kitten (which means: a first generation cat, once removed from wild leopard cat. Or 50% wild and 50% domestic). By breeding her f1 with the domestic cat, Jean created second generation hybrids, but the males were sterile so Jean could only continue breeding, through the female offspring.
The Bengal cat was not a failed experiment to create a domestic cat with FeLV immunity. In 1963 cats were sadly thought of as more expendable than they are today.
The hybrid feline coincidentally did fail to pass on the FeLV immunity, but it was Dr. Centerwall’s intention to study their genes for human leukemia research.
The hybrid feline coincidentally did fail to pass on the FeLV immunity, but it was Dr. Centerwall’s intention to study their genes for human leukemia research. Symantecs, I know.
My 14 Sasha has come up with a high liver count  of 900. Vet gave her Vitamin B12 shot and has her on Milk Thistle. Anyone gone through this. She is one smart cookie and difficult to give medication to. Also seeks it out in her food. Help
Hello there. Unfortunately, I’m not entirely sure what you’re looking for. Are you looking for tips on giving your cat medication? We don’t have an article on that subject at the moment, but you can get a few tips here: https://catcareclinic.net/training-your-cat-to-love-medications/
I hope this helped at least a bit! Remember that you can always ask your vet for additional assistance.
Feral cat had kittens in our back yard. One of them is I believe, a bengal. This one seems to have adopted me. Followed me everywhere I went in the yard. Her sister and her would climb on our roof to keep an eye on me. Following me everywhere at a safe distance. We fed them outside. One day she just walked in the back door and made herself at home. Now she sleeps on the floor by our bed. She gets agitated when she can’t find me and gives out a faint barking meow. In the garage she sits on my work bench and is quite vocal about my work. I believe she is a bengal. The triangular head, the slightly longer hind legs, ears set further apart, the vocalizing and the colour, red brown rosettes the sheen in the sunlight. Wish I could send a picture.
I found/rescued a 1-yr old (un neutered) male Bengal.  The vet estimated his age to be 1yr. I did have him neutered.   He was quite fractious for the 1st six months. I even got evicted from my housing due to his loud yowling & unpredictable behavior towards other people.  I’ve now had my Bengal for 2 yrs & he is my best friend.  Very playful, loves to snuggle & greets all with a loud yowl & an interested face.  These kitties are not for everyone.  But mine is Purrrfect for me.
Hi I have a color question.
My 3 1/2 month old bengal kitten is a silverish beige color (brown points) Would he be considered a brown or a silver?
Based on your description, it sounds like you may have a snow sepia kitten on your hands, but it’s impossible to say without seeing your cat. You might like this visual guide to Bengal coat colors and patterns: https://www.bengalcats.co/bengal-cat-colors-patterns/
Want to adopt or purchase a Bengal cat
Hi, I have always had Persians and after my last boy died aged 18 we wanted another cat. Fell for the pretty face of our new kitten, long haired bengal cross. Found out she had been hand reared which tugged at my heart strings but is perhaps now part of her problems. Now 3 months old and we still cannot stroke her without being bitten. My children are getting scared of her so have tried being the mum cat and hissing, putting her down when she bites and ignoring her but she just won’t stop. She has tons of toys and we play with her regularly but I’m at a loss what to do. At times she seems just wild. Any ideas or is she simply not the right cat for my family? Wish I had done some Bengal research first. Thanks
Hello Musicclaire,
Thank you for reaching out to us with your question about your new kitty’s behavioral issues. That sounds like a stressful situation.
I would closely watch her to look for signs of agitation and to determine exactly what it is that triggers her biting–is there a certain type of touch that she finds overstimulating or does she tend to bite after she’s been stroked for too long? Has anyone in your home ever let her play with their hands as if they were toys?
By observing her closely, you may be able to decode her behavior and learn to communicate and cooperate in a healthy way.
For more ideas, I highly recommend the ASPCA’s long, detailed article on dealing with aggressive behavior, including biting when pet:
https://www.aspca.org/pet-care/cat-care/common-cat-behavior-issues/aggression-cats
Hope this helps!
Take care,
Mallory
If u have had other cats have litters. You would hear a certain kind of fuss rrreeow with a small drawl when said. When it bites, dont take ur hand away showing ur not scared, do the mommy fuss meow, and then go to petting again. This shows 1) that ur not scared, 2) biting is a no no, 3) I’m petting u /I’m not hitting u. If u have kids, then u will know that when a child starts a bad habit, example u are brushing hair, she hits/bites u, ur not going to jump back like ur scared and ur not going to whack with the brush, but ur going to stay where and how u are u let them know it’s a no no what they just did, and mommy is going to brush ur hair and if u just sit there, it dont pull or hurt.. My point is IT ONLY TAKES A FEW TIMES OF PERSISTANT CONSISTENT CORRECTING & ADDING LOVE to work
Hello,
Sorry to hear about your problem.  Light bighting coupled with care licking is normal, they rarely bight to hurt except when over excited.   Try offering the back of your hand with fingers and thumb closed and hanging down – this is a sign of trust and friendship that should always be done for animals you don’t know. It works just as well with dogs.  In fact true Bengal cats have a very dog like temperament – very ready to learn and inquisitive.  They tend to be intensely loyal to a favorite person, but open to give love and cuddles to others they know. Ours is the most wonderful cat, huge fun and well behaved, he’s positively bursting with love and curiosity! Quite the most remarkable soul.
The nipping is normal kitten (and ferret) playing behavior, and you must teach her humans are more delicate.  If you or the children approach the cat with fear and trepidation, she may picking up on that.  Wrap the cat with a projected bubble of love as you approach her.
Keep the hooks of your Bengal’s nails trimmed every week, watch it with tickling her belly or ears (just stick to gently scratching the shoulders and under the collar), and wear thick gardening, ski, or rose-trimming gloves so as to not react if/when she does nip.  If the cat is not getting the reaction she expected, she will soon stop doing the behavior.
Our Bengal has totally in-printed on a human, he loves his person completely – total lap cat if another cat strays into the garden he howls, and I mean howls!!! They are very vocal, the pitch can be similar to babies crying (beware husbands with sensitive ears), past child rearing ages) in later life (12yrs plus their vocalisation increases) generally very fit, no major problems . Ours, first imprinted to our Siamese female, they were best of friends . after she died, our Bengal became very human oriented, following us about, he’s always been highly motivated by food, very intelligent if you wanted train for tricks. Craves companionship so be prepared to have a friend for life.
My Bengal cat is named Buddy. I love him. He is so active, I hope he calms down as he grows older. He is 4 months old. I’m trying to teach him to go to the bathroom only in his litter box. He occasionally pees other places. Would nuttering help?
Hi Diane, it’s very likely that neutering Buddy would help to resolve his occasional urination outside of the litter box, along with any other behavioral issues.
My son found our Bangal cat at a girls apartment who had allergic reaction to cats. He brought her home and she’s loyal and never leaves the property. She doesn’t like water and only eats dry cat food. Doesn’t eat food left around except sometimes tuna fish makes her crazy. Loves my son to death and the whole family is treat to kisses on occasions. Love strangers who appear on the property. Greets them and wants attention from them. Maintains an aloft additive unless you ignore her. Roles on her back when she wants to be pet. Very clean, well mannered and content with her surroundings. She was deserted and left in the wild and appreciates her home. Leaves well with our small long hair Mexican Chuwowa. Talks to us all the time says Hello when ever she comes in, loves being outside all the time but loves being around the family as well.great cat, doesn’t like chasing anything bigger then a small little ant eating lizard. Afraid of rats!
Hi! Bengal cats are hypoallergenic and love water. My cat is an f-5 bengal cat and I’ve done extensive research on this breed and I’ve never heard of another bengal like yours! I think that’s cool that yours is one of a kind; one very lucky cat owner! Especially since these types are very expensive!! My cat also says hello to people he meets!
Hello!
My cat was a Christmas gift and bought from a Petstore.
She doesn’t look very much like a Bengal except the eyes.
The sales certificate says “1/2 Bengal 1/2 tabby cat”.
Is there anyway to distinguish the level of Bengal?
Which F would she be?
Hey there Elle, without knowing anything about her Bengal parent, there isn’t any good way of knowing how much Bengal genetics your cat has. For now, we’ll have to leave that to your imagination. Wishing you and her all the best!
Pet Stores and Shelters call every semi-spotted tabby cat a Bengal.
Some may be part Egyptian Mau (Google it), which has green eyes and is supposedly a 4,000 year old spotted breed that modern-day tabbies and ‘tiger’ cats are descended from. They all have the same very distinctive face-markings.
Bengals generally have the rosettes and what they call ‘glitter’, as the light catches the golden or coppery tips of their fur.  Their fur is very thin (not much of a undercoat), and is technically considered a ‘pelt’, not fur.  This makes them love sunny warm spots and cuddling up to warm people at night.  Many Bengals will walk on a leash, and most are ‘talkers’, who make 20-30 different cat-sounds. They tend to see humans as Energy Beings, so project a bubble of love around them, and no fear or dark thoughts, or the Bengal will pick up on it and act accordingly.  Being part wild cat, Bengals get bored easily, and need a lot of challenging toys and climbing trees, else they create their own cat-playgrounds (and thus do weird things to your house).
Brown F4+ Bengals are said to be 94% Mau, 6% Asian Leopard Cat.
Silver Bengals are part siamese, too, and may have the blue eyes.
As Bengals are now getting crossed with Bengals more, some of them are getting smaller than the earlier ones.  My female Bengal is a petite (but very solid) 7 lbs.
The answer lays in the tail & fut
 Tough muscular tail and short (ish)
And the coat.
The same as above exactly what kind of food wet n dry ..you pick to much in the article n I go get . Male bengal kitten
Thank you
Joii
Hi Joli,
Our Bengal cat diet guide pretty much covers everything you need to know about your Bengal’s dietary needs.
Here’s the link:
https://cats.com/bengal-cat-diet
Do let us know if how we any purrrther questions ?
So ..tell me what to give him wet n dry on a daily basis, and I will go buy, because what I read was to much 4 my brain..I have low budget but for him no?? Thank you
Joii
This is what I feed him
3 oz wet & 3/4cup dry
Weruva Cats in the Kitchen Funk in the Trunk Chicken Recipe in Pumpkin Consomme Cat Food by Weruva
&
ACANA First Feast Kitten Cat Food by ACANA
It doesn’t brake the bank and it’s Really good nutrition
A bag is about 25$  and a 24case of 6 oz is may 40?
Om not rich but I spoil my boy. Really high protein  , best food on the market in my opinion
Costs me maybe 4$ a day
Origen cat food is excellent high quality food for your bengal cat. We feed both of our bengals Origen.
I got my Bengal from a breeder, who feeds her cats daily: one can of friskies prime filets and 1/2 cup of life’s abundance dry food. Life expectancy has been 18-20 years.
--------------------------------------------------
The Bengal cat is a breed of hybrid cat created from crossing of an Asian leopard cat (Prionailurus bengalensis) with domestic cats, especially the spotted Egyptian Mau. It is then usually bred with a breed that demonstrates a friendlier personality, because after breeding a domesticated cat with a wildcat, its friendly personality may not manifest in the kitten. The breed's name derives from the leopard cat's taxonomic name.
Bengals have varying appearances. Their coats range from spots, rosettes, arrowhead markings, to marbling.
The earliest mention of an Asian leopard cat × domestic cross was in 1889, when Harrison Weir wrote of them in Our Cats and All About Them.[1]
Jean Mill of California is given credit for the modern Bengal breed. She made the first known deliberate cross of an Asian leopard cat with a domestic cat (a black California tomcat).[2] Bengals as a breed did not really begin in earnest until much later.[3]
In 1986, the breed was accepted as a "new breed" by The International Cat Association; Bengals gained TICA championship status in 1991.[4] The Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF) accepted Bengal cats in 1997.[5] Fédération Internationale Féline (FIFe) in 1999 accepted the breed into their registry.[6] Also in 1999, Bengals were accepted into the Australian Cat Federation (ACF).[7] The Cat Fanciers' Association accepted the Bengal in CFA's "Miscellaneous" in 2016, under the restrictions that "it must be F6 or later (6 generations removed from the Asian leopard cat or non-Bengal domestic cat ancestors)".[8]
Bengal cats from the first three generations of breeding (F1, G2, and G3) are considered "foundation" or "early-generation" Bengals. The early-generation males are frequently infertile. Therefore, female early-generation Bengals are bred to fertile domestic Bengal males of later generations.[2][9][10] Nevertheless, as the term was used incorrectly for many years, many people and breeders still refer to the cats as F2, F3, and F4, even though the term is considered incorrect.[11][clarification needed]
The Bengal breed was more fully developed by the 1980s. "In 1992 The International Cat Association had 125 registered Bengal Breeders."[2] By the 2000s, Bengals had become a very popular breed.  In 2019, there were nearly 2,500 Bengal breeders registered in TICA worldwide.[12]
* The 2019 number only represents the breeders who use the word "Bengal" in their cattery name.
Bengals come in a variety of coat colors.[13][14] The International Cat Association (TICA) recognizes several Bengal colors: brown spotted, seal lynx point (snow), sepia, silver, and mink spotted tabby.[15]
The Bengal cat is the only domestic breed of cat that has rosette markings.[citation needed]
Domestic cats have four distinct and heritable coat patterns – ticked, mackerel, blotched, and spotted – these are collectively referred to as tabby markings.[16]
Christopher Kaelin, a Stanford University geneticist, has conducted research that has been used to identify the spotted gene and the marble gene in domestic Bengal cats.  Kaelin studied the color and pattern variations of feral cats in Northern California, and was able to identify the gene responsible for the marble pattern in Bengal cats.[17]
In Australia, G5 (fifth-generation) Bengals are not restricted, but their import is complex.[18]
Bengals were regulated in the United Kingdom. In 2007, however, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs removed the previous licensing requirements.[19]
In the United States, legal restrictions and even bans sometimes exist at the state and municipal level. In Hawaii, Bengal cats are prohibited by law (as are all wild cat species, and all other hybrids of domestic and wild animals).[20] In Connecticut, it is also illegal to own any generation of Bengal cat.[21] In Alaska, Bengal cats must be four generations removed from the Asian leopard cat. A permit and registered pedigree that indicates the previous four generations are required.[22] In California, the code of regulations Title 14, section K, Asian leopards are not specifically listed as a restricted species. In Delaware, a permit is required to own Bengal cats.[23] Bengals of the F1–G4 generations are also regulated in New York state, Georgia, Massachusetts, and Indiana. Various cities have imposed restrictions; in New York City, Bengals are prohibited,[24][25] and there are limits on Bengal ownership in Seattle, Washington, and in Denver, Colorado.[26] Except where noted above, Bengal cats with a generation of G5 and beyond are considered domestic, and are generally legal in the US.
In New Zealand's Southland District, the Bengal cat requires a permit to own and is completely banned on any off-shore islands including Stewart Island.[27]
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a major concern in the Bengal cat breed. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a disease in which the heart muscle (myocardium) becomes abnormally thick (hypertrophied). A thick heart muscle makes it difficult for the cat's heart to pump blood.[28]
HCM is a common genetic disease in Bengal cats and there is no genetic testing available as of 2018. In the United States, the current practice of screening for HCM involves bringing Bengal cats to a board certified veterinary cardiologist where an echocardiogram is completed. Bengal cats that are used for breeding should be screened annually to ensure that no hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is present. As of January 2019, the North Carolina State University is attempting to identify genetic markers for HCM in the Bengal Cat.[29]
One study published in the Journal of Internal Veterinary Medicine has claimed the prevalence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in Bengal cats is 16.7% (95% CI = 13.2–46.5%).[30]
Bengal cats are known to be affected by several genetic diseases, one of which is Bengal progressive retinal atrophy, also known as Bengal PRA or PRA-b. Anyone breeding Bengal cats should carry out this test, since it is inexpensive, noninvasive, and easy to perform. A breeder stating their cats are "veterinarian tested" should not be taken to mean that this test has been performed by a vet: it is carried out by the breeder, outside of a vet office (rarely, if ever, by a vet). The test is then sent directly to the laboratory.
PK deficiency is a common genetic diseases found in Bengal cats. PK deficiency is another test that is administered by the breeder. Breeding Bengal Cats should be tested before breeding to ensure two PK deficiency carriers are not mated. This is a test that a breeder must do on their own. A breeder uses a cotton swab to rub the inside of the cat's mouth and then mails the swab to the laboratory.
A unique form of ulcerative dermatitis affecting the nasal planum (rhinarium or nose leather) of Bengal cats was first reported in 2004.[31] The condition first presents between the ages of 4-12 months, beginning as a dry scale and progressing to crusts and fissures typical of hyperkeratosis.[32] The exact cause remains unclear; it is considered hereditary and incurable, but can respond favorably to topical steroid treatments such as prednisolone and tacrolimus ointment.[31]
A UK study looking at veterinary records found the Bengal to have a life expectancy of 8.51 years compared to 11.74 years overall.[33]
The UC Davis Veterinary Genetics Laboratory has studied domestic cat blood-types. They conclude that most domestic cats fall within the AB system. The common blood-types are A and B and some cats have the rare AB blood-type. There is a lack of sufficient samples from Bengals, so the genetics of the AB blood-group in Bengal cats is not well understood.[34]
One Bengal blood-type study that took place in the U.K. tested 100 Bengal cats. They concluded that all 100 of the Bengal cats tested had type A blood.[35]
Bengals are often claimed by breeders[36] and pet adoption agencies[37] to be a hypoallergenic breed – one less likely to cause an allergic reaction.  The Bengal cat is said to produce lower than average levels of allergens,[37][better source needed] though this has not been scientifically proven as of 2020.
Cat geneticist Leslie Lyons, who runs the University of Missouri's Feline and Comparative Genetics Laboratory, discounts such claims, observing that there is no such thing as a hypoallergenic cat. Alleged hypoallergenic breeds thus may still produce a reaction among those who have severe allergies.[38]
Some long-haired Bengals (more properly, semi-long-haired) have always occurred in Bengal breeding. Many different domestic cats were used to create the Bengal breed, and it is theorized that the gene for long hair came from one of these backcrossings. UC Davis has developed a genetic test for long hair so that Bengal breeders could select Bengal cats with a recessive long-hair gene for their breeding programs.[39]
Some Bengal cats used in breeding can carry a recessive gene for long-haired. When a male and female Bengal each carry a copy of the recessive long hair gene, and those two Bengals are mated with each other, they can produce long-haired Bengals. (See Cat coat genetics#Genes involved in fur length and texture.) In the past, long-haired offspring of Bengal matings were spayed or neutered until some breeders chose to develop the long-haired Bengal (which are sometimes called a Cashmere Bengal).
Long-haired Bengals are starting to gain more recognition in some cat breed registries but are not widely accepted. Since 2013, they have "preliminary" breed status in the New Zealand Cat Fancy (NZCF) registry, under the breed name Cashmere Bengal.[40] Since 2017 The International Cat Association (TICA) has accepted the Bengal Longhair[41] in competitions.
--------------------------------------------------
The Bengal cat is a hybrid breed developed by crossing domestic cats, including the Egyptian Mau, with the wild Asian Leopard Cat.  Renowned for their dramatic spotted or marbled coats, Bengals often resemble miniature leopards, with sleek, muscular bodies and distinctive markings that include rosettes, stripes, or swirls. Their coats have a unique silky texture and a shimmering “glitter” effect in some cats, making them truly one of a kind. Despite their fierce and wild appearance, Bengal cats are known for their loving and friendly personalities, forming strong bonds with their human families.
Energetic and intelligent, Bengal cats thrive in active homes that can meet their need for stimulation and exercise. These highly playful cats love climbing and exploring. They often show a surprising fondness for activities like fetch or playing in water. Bengal cats require plenty of mental and physical enrichment, such as climbing trees, scratching posts, and puzzle toys, to keep them entertained.
When considering a Bengal, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. When purchasing from a reputable breeder, the Bengal cat price can be close to $3000. If your heart is set on this breed, conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Bengal breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats. They also conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
A frequently asked question, this beautiful breed isn’t hypoallergenic. However, they’re typically rated as low to medium risk for individuals with cat allergies. Due to their short coat, tendency to groom less than other breeds, and minimal shedding, they can still be a suitable option for those with mild cat allergies. It’s a good idea to have Benadryl on hand, just in case.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
With his distinctive spotted coat and large size, the Bengal looks like a wild cat on the prowl, but although one of his ancestors is the small, wild Asian leopard cat, he’s a domestic cat through and through. Bengals take their name from the Asian leopard cat’s scientific name, Felis bengalensis.
They were created through crosses between an Asian leopard cat — which in the 1950s and into the 1960s could be purchased at pet stores — and domestic shorthairs. Jean Mill, a breeder in California, was the first to make such a cross, but not because she wanted to create a new breed. She had acquired a leopard cat and allowed her to keep company with a black tom cat so she wouldn’t be lonely.
To her surprise, since she hadn’t thought the two species would mate, kittens resulted, and Mill kept a spotted female. Breeding her back to her father produced a litter of spotted and solid kittens. At about the same time, Dr. Willard Centerwall was crossing Asian leopard cats with domestic cats at Loyola University. The leopard cats were resistant to the feline leukemia virus, so researchers were interested in finding out if the trait could be passed on to hybrid offspring.
Various breeders became interested in developing the cats as a breed. Mill was one of them. Changes in her life had caused her to give up cat breeding, but she was ready to begin again. She had acquired some of Dr. Centerwall’s hybrids and sought out suitable males to breed to them. One was an orange domestic shorthair that she found in India, of all places, and the other was a brown spotted tabby acquired from a shelter.
Bengals today are considered to be the same as domestic cats, and any Bengal purchased should be at least four generations removed from any ancestors with wild bloodlines. The first cat association to recognize the Bengal was The International Cat Association, which granted the breed experimental status in 1983, followed by full recognition in 1991. The Bengal is also recognized by the American Cat Fanciers Association, the Canadian Cat Association, and the United Feline Organization. Bengal cats are so sought after, that a British woman paid over $50,000 for her Bengal cat in 1990, dubbing them the “Rolls Royce” of feline companions.
This is a medium-to-large cat. Bengals weigh eight to 15 pounds or more.
The Bengal is highly active and highly intelligent. This makes him fun to live with, but he can sometimes be challenging. On the whole, the Bengal is a confident, talkative, friendly cat who is always alert. Nothing escapes his notice. He likes to play games, including fetch, and he’s a whiz at learning tricks.
His nimble paws are almost as good as his hands, and it’s a good thing he doesn’t have opposable thumbs or he would probably rule the world. Bored Bengal cats can also adopt some unconventional (and slightly destructive) habits, including: turning light switches on and off, fishing seals out of drains, and excitedly plucking CDs from your DVD player.
Fond of playing in water, the Bengal is not above jumping into the tub or strolling into the shower with you. Aquarium and pond fish may be at risk from his clever paws. He also loves to climb and can often be found perching at the highest point he can reach in the home. A tall cat tree or two is a must for this feline, as are puzzle toys that will challenge his intelligence. On the rare occasions that he isn’t swinging on chandeliers or swimming in your pool, the affectionate Bengal will be pleased to sit on your lap. He will share your bed. And yes, he steals the covers.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic. Bengals are generally healthy, but the following diseases have been seen in the breed:

The short, thick coat of the Bengal is easily cared for with weekly combing to remove dead hair and distribute skin oils. A bath is rarely necessary. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene, and a dirty box may cause them to start using other places in the house instead. It’s a good idea to keep a Bengal as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car.
Keeping him indoors also protects local birds and wildlife from this avid hunter. If possible, build your Bengal a large outdoor enclosure where he can jump and climb safely. Bengals who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Bengal is anything but delicate, embodying the athleticism and grace of a jungle cat. With a strong, muscular body, the Bengal moves with agility and power, a true athlete in the feline world. Its broad head is a modified wedge shape, slightly longer than it is wide, with gently rounded contours. Medium to small ears are set toward the sides of the head, relatively short and contributing to the breed’s wild appearance. The large, almost round oval eyes add an alert and expressive look to the Bengal’s striking face.
A long, muscular neck connects the head to a robust body supported by medium-length legs, slightly longer in the back than in the front, giving the Bengal a poised stance. The legs end in large, round paws that are perfect for climbing and pouncing. A thick, medium-length tail tapers to a black-tipped end, adding to the breed’s balanced and agile appearance.
Unique to the Bengal is their spotted belly, a feature that enhances their exotic look. The Bengal’s short, thick coat feels luxuriously soft and silky to the touch, coming in an array of stunning colors and patterns. These include brown tabby, seal mink tabby, black silver tabby, and seal silver lynx point. The coat can feature randomly placed or horizontally aligned spots, or a marbled pattern with flowing horizontal swirls on a lighter background. Some Bengals boast a “glittered” coat, with fur that shimmers in the light as though dusted with gold, further solidifying the Bengal’s reputation as one of the most captivating and unique breeds in the feline world.
The active and social Bengal is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He will play fetch as well as any retriever, learns tricks easily, and loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect. He’s smart enough to get out of the way of toddlers but loves school-age children because they are a match for his energy level and curiosity.
Nothing scares him, certainly not dogs, and he will happily make friends with them if they don’t give him any trouble. Always introduce any pets, even other cats, slowly and in a controlled setting. Like many active cats, Bengals have a high prey drive and should not be trusted with smaller prey animals such as hamsters, smaller rabbits, and guinea pigs.
Although Bengal cats are popular pets, they too find themselves without homes on occasion. If you’re interested in adopting or fostering Bengal cats, here are a few rescue groups that specialize in this exotic breed:
If you’re also looking for a dog, please visit DogTime’s dog breed page!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Known for their exotic looks yet attentive and loving nature, the Bengal is one of the most recognized breeds of cat. Bengals are very social and people-oriented and thrive in the company of other people. Find out more about this breed and if a Bengal is right for you and your family.
Playful
Bengals reach their full size by the age of 2
Approximately 6-12 pounds
Approximately 9-15 pounds
12 to 20 years depending on many factors including environment and nutrition.
Brown Tabby, Silver Tabby, Seal Lynx Point, Seal Sepia Tabby, Seal Mink Tabby, Spotted, Marble, Charcoal Spotted or Charcoal Marble pattern.
Brown Tabby, Silver Tabby, Seal Lynx Point, Seal Sepia Tabby, Seal Mink Tabby, Spotted, Marble, Charcoal Spotted or Charcoal Marble pattern.
Abyssinian, 
Savannah, 
Toyger
Persian
Known for their inquisitive, spirited, loving nature and striking appearance, Bengal cats are one of TICA’s most popular breeds. Developed from the cross between domestic cats and the leopard cat (Prionailurus bengalensis), a small wildcat native to Asian forests, Bengals were bred to combine a wild look with the gentle temperament of a domestic cat. With its soft, pelt-like coat featuring dramatic rosettes or distinctive marbling, this unique breed is the only domestic breed with rosettes reminiscent of the breathtaking patterns seen on wild cats worldwide. While all Bengals are heavily muscled, they vary in size and weight based on gender.
Modern Bengal cats are bred exclusively from Bengal-to-Bengal pairings and thrive in homes prioritizing enrichment and attention to their high-energy personalities. Bengals are generally confident, curious, and devoted companions.  Some are extroverted and busy; others are introverted by instinct and prefer a quieter life, but all are loving and communicative with the people in their circle of trust. With proper introductions, they coexist harmoniously with other pets and enjoy being an active part of family life.
Those seeking the engaging interaction and lively companionship of a high-energy, intelligent cat breed will find Bengals a rewarding choice.
Highly intelligent, Bengals rank among the most trainable cat breeds. They eagerly learn tricks such as playing fetch or walking on a harness, especially when motivated by food treats or clicker training. These training sessions not only burn off energy but also strengthen the bond between Bengals and their human companions.
Constantly climbing to high places, exploring their surroundings, and engaging in mentally and physically stimulating play, Bengals are a high-energy breed. They thrive on chasing, climbing, and investigating, bringing a dynamic energy to any home. Providing outlets such as a cat wheel, consistent interactive play sessions, or puzzle toys keeps them entertained and satisfied.
Interaction fuels a Bengal’s happiness. They enjoy engaging with their families and often bond well with another cat or a cat-friendly dog as a playmate. When kept as the only pet, Bengals rely on their humans for frequent enrichment and companionship. Their sociable and curious nature makes them thrive in homes that offer plenty of interaction and engagement.
Want to connect with fellow cat lovers and those who love the same breed as you?TICA is a large resource made up of smaller regions and clubs around the world.Click here to find a club near you and contact information for your regional director and website.
Wherever you are, you’re in TICA’s world!®
The TICA website is the only place where you can find TICA member breeders who have signed the TICA Code of Ethics.
Bengals can be trained to perform tricks like sit, stay, and fetch, and even enjoy walking on a leash. Their curiosity and playfulness mean they thrive on games, puzzles, and plenty of mental and physical stimulation
Bengals are the only domestic cat breed with striking rosette patterns, reminiscent of wildcats. Many Bengals also have a unique “glitter” gene, which gives their fur a shimmering, iridescent sparkle, making them look like they’ve been dusted with gold in the sunlight.
Bengals use a variety of sounds—chirps, trills, and meows— to “chat” with their humans, fostering a deep and interactive bond. Their mesmerizing eyes convey a loving gaze, adding to their charm as incredibly engaging companions.
Unlike most cats, Bengals are fascinated by water. They often enjoy playing in sinks, bathtubs, and may even join their owners in the shower!
Known for their inquisitive, spirited, loving nature and striking appearance, Bengal cats are one of TICA’s most popular breeds. Developed from the cross between domestic cats and the leopard cat (Prionailurus bengalensis), a small wildcat native to Asian forests, Bengals were bred to combine a wild look with the gentle temperament of a domestic cat. With its soft, pelt-like coat featuring dramatic rosettes or distinctive marbling, this unique breed is the only domestic breed with rosettes reminiscent of the breathtaking patterns seen on wild cats worldwide. While all Bengals are heavily muscled, they vary in size and weight based on gender.
Throughout history, there are indications of a profound human fascination with the large and small wild felines that inhabit the jungles and forest of the world. In 1963, Jean S. Mill crossed the domestic cat with the Asian Leopard Cat, a spotted five to twelve pound shy wild cat species from Asia. This was the first effort to use hybrid offspring to create a breed of domestic cat with the loving nature of a favored fireside tabby and the striking look associated with Leopards, Ocelots and Jaguars. The modern Bengal breed traces to cats bred by Mrs. Mill beginning in the early 1980’s. The breed’s name is a reference to the scientific name of the Asian Leopard Cat, Prionailurus bengalensis. The hybrid crosses are registered as Foundation (F1, 2G & 3G) Bengals that are not eligible for show and only the females are used for breeding.
Accepted as a new breed in TICA in 1986, Bengals gained championship status in 1991. They are now one of the most frequently exhibited breeds in TICA. An enthusiastic group of breeders around the world have successfully fulfilled the goal of creating a docile, civilized house cat that wears the richly patterned coat of the jungle cats and has some of the arresting features that have inspired and aroused humanity for centuries.
While you can train a Bengal to have “good manners”, they are an active, inquisitive cat that loves to be up high. If you don’t like a cat to leave the floor, a Bengal is probably not the right cat for you. Bengals are busy by nature. They are very affectionate and can be a “lap cat” whenever THEY want to be, but in general their idea of fun is playing, chasing, climbing and investigating. When a Bengal is in full play mode, it’s rather like trying to hold on to running water! They’ll often save the cuddle time for when they want to sleep. Many Bengals enjoy water and may join you in brushing your teeth or taking a shower. Some Bengals are vocal while others are more quiet and selective about using their voice.
Bengals will also, in general, ALWAYS want to be where you are. After all, that’s where the action is! And Bengals are all about “The Action”. When given the choice of a static toy, and one that does wild, unpredictable things, Bengals will always choose the “wild” one! For individuals or families who enjoy rambunctious, funny, beautiful and dynamic feline companionship, consider the Bengal.
The Bengal is most noted for it luxurious short, soft coat which may appear in either the spotted or marble pattern. Some Bengal’s coats feature something called glitter which imparts an iridescent sheen to each hair. The spotted pattern is most associated with the “leopard look” as the coat features clearly discernible spots and rosettes. The Bengal’s spots can be large or small and often include rosettes, like the spots of Jaguars and Leopards, which are two- toned spots. Bengals may also be marbled, which is a derivative of the classic or “bull’s eye” pattern found in many breeds of cats but with an especially dramatic appearance in Bengals. The marbled Bengal has a swirling pattern that appears as random swirls or thick diagonal and horizontal lines flowing across the coat of the cat.
The most popular color of the Bengal is the brown/black tabby, a lackluster description for coats that can be anywhere from a cool grey to vibrant shades of golden, bronze, copper or mahogany with spots or marbling ranging from rich browns to intense black. Bengals also come in a range of colors associated with a form of albinism, called “snow” by breeders, that indicates Siamese and Burmese ancestry. In these colors the coat appears ivory, cream or light tan with spots or marbling that may range from light brown to dark chocolate and the eye color is blue to aqua. Silver Bengals have grey to nearly white backgrounds with dark grey to black patterns. Also distinctive about the Bengal’s coloring is that they may have nearly white undersides and facial markings that still show the tabby pattern.
Bengals are medium to large cats, from 6-15 pounds, with males generally being larger than females. A healthy Bengal is well muscled and has an appearance that depicts its athleticism. Bengals are balanced cats and none of its physical features should appear exaggerated or especially pronounced.
Bengals are generally confident, curious and devoted companions. They get along well with other pets when properly introduced and enjoy being part of a family. Each Bengal is an individual and those interested should find out as much as they can about this wonderful breed before adding one to their family.
TICA breeders should test for Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (the most common heart disease in all domestic cats), provide genetic testing for Progressive Retinal Atrophy, and PK-deficiency (Erythrocyte Pyruvate Kinase Deficiency). Note: Bengals are commonly misdiagnosed with Intestinal Bowel Disease. An appropriate high protein diet and proper testing for parasites can clear any real issues.
Shorthaired Bengals don’t require much grooming as their short hair results in little shedding. Most cats shed a winter coat in the spring, so brushing with something like a Zoom Groom brush is good. Providing a chew toy helps with keeping the teeth clean as do chicken sticks, strips or chunks of meat. Monthly nail trimming is recommended.
Longhair Bengals require daily grooming with a comb or brush.
Similar to any cat, Bengals require proper protein and nutrients. A high-quality diet is recommended. As with any cat, after altering (spaying/neutering), they have a greater tendency to become overweight. Owners should be aware of both the quality and quantity of foods being fed. Most breeders would recommend avoiding “free feeding” of adult cats. Bengals also do well on a raw diet. Freeze dried raw diets are available at most pet stores.
As with all cats, it is important to give your cat fresh, clean water daily. Fresh, clean water is best, so cats don’t hesitate to drink. If you worry about your cat drinking enough water each day, here’s a tip from some cat behaviorists: place the water bowl at least three feet away from any food. Cats’ noses are sensitive, and an overwhelming smell of food may cause them to drink less. Filtered drinking fountains can also be used in place of a water bowl.
Join the Cat Care Community!
Sign up now for exclusive monthly cat care tips delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your name and email below to stay updated with the best advice for your kitty companions!
"*" indicates required fields
--------------------------------------------------
What an exquisite coat the Bengal cat has. It looks like the coat of a wild cat and can have spots, marbling, and rosettes, but it is domesticated, developed from hybrids – the spotted Egyptian Mau and the Asian Leopard cat.
It is the only domestic breed of cat that has rosette markings. It is Jean Mill of California that you associate the Bengal cat with, and she conducted a number of graduate classes in genetics.
The Bengal looks like a wild cat and it can weigh up to 7kg. It can reach a height of 70cm with long, muscular legs and almond-shaped eyes which are green or blue.
When it comes to the coat of the Bengal cat, it has a wide variety of colors and patterns. The cat can be brown, black, red, grey, spotted, clouded, ticked or rosette.
There are Bengal breeders that claim that their Bengals are hypoallergenic so that they won’t cause an allergic reaction with their owers. This is something that hasn’t been scientifically proved and in fact many will say that there isn’t such as thing as a hypoallergenic cat.
The Bengal is a medium to large-sized cat, being long and lean and muscular. As a low shedder, it is believed the Bengal is a hypoallergenic cat breed – a cat less likely to cause an allergy with its human owners.
When you bring a Bengal cat into your home, you’ll find they are energetic, smart, and playful and they love cavorting around in water.
People who have owned a Bengal say that the cat is friendly and that it enjoys interacting with humans. They’re cats capable of forming strong bonds with their human family, becoming affectionate and loyal. They in turn want to receive lots of loving attention.
They’re intelligent too and are quick to learn. You have to remember that these are part wild cat and that they are only classed as tame from the 4th generation (T4).
The cat has wild traits so it is only natural that it likes to hunt so don’t be alarmed when your Bengal presents you with dead mice, moles, and birds.
Bengal cats are intelligent and just like a dog he is clever at learning tricks and can even be taught things such as ‘sit’, ‘fetch’ or ‘lie down’. They actually make great companions as they are sensitive to their owner's moods and can even recognize human gestures and adapt their behavior to their owner's mood.
They’re vocal cats too and they like to communicate about their needs, being able to meow in different tones. They’re active cats and they want active owners – those who can spend time with them playing and even going on walks and hikes.
The Bengal certainly is a wonderfully companionable cat.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a concern with the Bengal cat breed and this is a disease where the heart muscle becomes thick and unable to pump blood properly.
It’s a common genetic disease in Bengal cats. Cats used for breeding need to be screened each year to ensure no hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is present.
Another problem with the Bengal cat is Progressive retinal atrophy or PRA. Anyone wanting to breed Bengals should have their cat tested for this eye disease as the disease can lead to blindness.
You will need a secured outdoor area for your Bengal cat where he can play and climb. He will need these for his activity levels as well as stimulating toys.
Provide feeding and water bowls and also make sure that you provide your Bengal with a shallow swimming pool as this cat loves water.
The Bengal is a healthy cat breed so it is important to provide your pet cat with the best food there is and to ensure he gets checked out at the vet every year.
Most hybrid breed owners provide raw food as these cats are often sensitive to commercially manufactured food. Having said that, there are high-quality prepared cat foods that will provide your Bengal with everything needed for a healthy life.
Look at providing your pet with a good supplement to ensure your furry friend has every chance to be healthy and happy.
--------------------------------------------------
