Cat Breeds
Also known as the sacred cat of Burma, the Birman cat is a large, long-haired breed with a heavy bone structure. Most of these cats exceed 12 pounds once they reach adulthood.
Birman cats tend to be quiet, a bit shy with strangers, and they can be somewhat reserved even with people they know well. They have a tendency to attach themselves to a single person, so if you're someone who's looking for a loyal cat that loves you above all others, the Birman might be for you!
Birman cats have soft, silky fur in a creamy, pale eggshell color. Darker points similar to the markings on a Siamese are present, along with white “mitts” or snowshoe feet. Stunning blue eyes are another unique feature of the Birman cat breed.
Birman cats do not have any special nutritional requirements, however they thrive on high-protein diets. We recommend feeding your Birman cat a high-quality cat food.
Even though Birman cats have long hair, they are relatively easy to care for compared with many other long-haired cat breeds. The Birman cat's hair is fine and silky, with a single coat that is not prone to matting. Routine brushing – at least once daily – will help keep this kitty's coat in great shape and provide both of you with a pleasant bonding experience.
You may also wish to brush your cat's teeth, and you may want to keep their toenails trimmed.
Birman cats need plenty of exercise each day and you may need to help them get it. These cats love to lounge; however, they will happily play with toys when encouraged to do so. A cat tree is ideal for napping, but it's also essential for stretching and climbing.
Catnip infused toys can bring out this normally sedate feline's playful side!
While the Birman cat has a reputation for overall good health, these kitties can be prone to obesity. Keep your cat active, and make sure that you are offering an appropriate, high-protein diet to help your cat maintain a healthy, comfortable weight.
Many cats come with unique stories attached, but the Birman is unique in that the breed is surrounded in mystery. As the legend goes, a Kittah priest called Mun-Ha was worshiping at the Temple of Lao-Tsun, accompanied by a white temple cat named Sinh.
Raiders entered the temple and killed Mun-Ha. As the priest lay dying, Sinh placed his feet on his body and faced the goddess Tsun-Kyan-Kse. The cat was transformed; his body turns to a golden color, his eyes turned blue, and his legs changed to brown. His feet remained white where they touched his master. Legend says that the Birman cat's white feet are a symbol of purity.
At the same time, the rest of the temple cats were transformed, taking on the same appearance as Sinh.
The temple of Lao-Tsun was actually raided again in 1919. Two men, Major Gordon Russell and Auguste Pavie, came to the aid of the priests. As a gesture of gratitude, the priests gave the men a breeding pair of Birman cats, which were transported to France. It is believed that many Birman foundation cats were Siamese.
Sadly, the end of World War II saw only one pair of Birman cats remaining alive, even though the breed had begun to gain popularity. By the 1960s though, there were enough Birman cats to allow for importation into England. The breed gained popularity, and by 1966, was officially recognized by British cat fancy associations.
The first Birman cats arrived in America in 1959 and CFA granted the breed official recognition in 1967.
Birman cats have a jealous streak! If one of these cats claims you as their person, they will long for your attention and will become envious of other pets who steal the spotlight.
The Birman cat is chatty and vocal, but with a far softer voice then its close cousin, the Siamese. If you're looking for a quiet but communicative pet, this cat might be the ideal choice.
Just like other color point cats, Birmans are white at birth. They develop their coat colors as they age. It can take up to three years for these kitties to achieve their final color.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Birman, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Birman or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Birman, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Birman cats cost between $400 - $1,000.
Birman cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Birman cat might weigh between 6-14 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8"-11" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Birman is 12-16 years.
Birman are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
I would like to have some information on the Berman cats. I like the cream point and the red point Birman . I would like the price range of the average Berman cat.
I have a seal point Birman which is 18 1/2 years old.
Unfortunately, I had to euthanize  her .
I’m sorry about your loss.
Grew up with a Birman. Best cat ever. Never scratched any furniture. Always took turns with all of his people in the house. Everyone had a dedicated time he would go spend time with them. He was very beloved.   Poor thing got dementia and kidney issues. Had to be put down at 19. He was replaced because my mom couldn’t be without one. And I now have my own. Every Birman is unique and has their own personality. They are so much fun.
What brand of wet foods are best for birman Cats. I feed mine, tiki cats  are they a good brand,gluetin and grain free
Tiki Cat is a great choice! Your Birman cat has roughly the same nutritional requirements as any other cat. A high-protein, high-moisture, low-carbohydrate diet like Tiki Cat is as good a choice for a Birman as any other cat.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Borkin Vadim, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 1, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Birman cats originated from Burma (which is now known as Myanmar). Birmans are known for their unique color points, which make them resemble Siamese cats. However, what sets Birman cats apart is their distinctive coat color, known as “Mink,” which is a combination of cream and fawn. They also tend to have darker colors around their ears, faces, paws, and tails.
Height:
8 to 10 inches
Weight:
8 to 12 pounds
Lifespan:
12 to 16 years
Colors:
Color-pointed
Suitable for:
Suitable for anyone looking for a friendly feline
Temperament:
Affectionate, social, gentle
Often, Birman cats are known for their very affectionate, social nature. They aren’t standoffish like many cat breeds, which has often led to them being described as “dog-like.” They tend to follow their owners around the house, asking for attention.
However, they aren’t as vocal as many other breeds (like the Siamese).

Birman kittens are playful and curious from an early age, and they’re known for being pretty social. It’s important to socialize with them during their kitten phase, though. While they are naturally friendly, socialization is still important.
Their color pattern typically doesn’t develop fully until several months after birth. Therefore, when you pick out your kitten, you may not really know what they will look like. Furthermore, these cats continue to darken throughout their life (after being born white), so their coat may look very different after a few years.
These cats aren’t as common as some other breeds. Therefore, you’ll probably have to go through a breeder to get one. Some may show up at your local shelter, but this would be a rare occurrence. Be sure to prioritize breeders that put the health of the cat first, not the paycheck. Ask about what health tests they perform on the parents, as well as the training and socialization they put into their kittens.

Birman cats are known for their gentle, affectionate temperaments. They’re extremely people-oriented and tend to follow their humans around the house. They form strong bonds with everyone in their family, including children.
Birmans enjoy being part of family activities and thrive when they get plenty of human interaction. While this is great for those looking for a social cat, it’s also important that they are given the attention they need. Otherwise, they can become bored and lonely. These felines tend to be fairly calm and laid-back, as well. They aren’t as vocal as other breeds and tend to have a rather soft meow. Therefore, they’re a great alternative to Siamese cats for those who want a social breed without the noise that often comes with them.
Birman cats are typically considered to be great cats for families. They’re known for being gentle and affectionate, making them perfect for just about any family. They’re good with children and seniors alike. They form strong bonds with their family members and tend to seek out affection more than other cats.
When properly socialized, they can be very patient around children (and tolerant of a lot of noise and activity). However, supervision is still recommended. If you’re in a quieter family, the Birman’s lower noise level can be greatly appreciated, as well. Even when they do meow, they tend to be rather soft-spoken.
Of course, individual cats do vary. Some are much more vocal than others, and some may not fit the “calm” definition perfectly.
Birman cats tend to be rather social and tolerant, which can allow them to get along well with other pets. They tend to be adaptable and open to interaction with both cats and dogs. Early socialization is extremely important, though. If you want your cat to get around dogs, then you need to introduce them to dogs at an early age. That said, their easy going temperament makes it easier for them to integrate into families than other felines.
Gradual socialization is essential for bringing home any new pet, of course.
Furthermore, they are still cats and have a relatively high prey drive. Therefore, they shouldn’t be left with smaller pets, like rabbits and hamsters. They’ll likely consider these prey animals, even with socialization.

Birman cats have about the same nutritional needs as any other cat breed out there. They need balanced, quality cat food that is made for their particular life stage. For instance, you should feed your kitten food designed explicitly for kittens. Kittens and adults have different nutritional guidelines, as kittens are still growing.
Cats are obligate carnivores, which means that they must consume a diet with plenty of animal-based proteins. Therefore, you should look for foods that include meat as the primary ingredient, though the type of meat doesn’t make much of a difference for most cats.
Birmans have a moderate activity level, so they’re typically fine with average cat food. These cats rarely need a special diet. However, certain health problems may need particular diets to help manage them.
Birman cats are pretty moderate in terms of their activity level. They aren’t exceedingly active, but they aren’t lazy either. You can expect them to be very playful as kittens. However, that playfulness may start to dissipate as they get older. Still, it’s important to encourage them to move at least a little bit every day to prevent obesity.
Just like in humans, staying active can help cats stay healthy as they age.
Invest in quality toys that your feline likes to play with. Some interactive toys may be a good idea, too, as this will allow your cat to play when you aren’t available. Cats may not be interested in playing with a static mouse toy, but they may be interested in a cat wand that moves by itself.
Scratching posts also provide cats with a form of exercise. While it may not look like exercise to us, scratching works many of a cat’s muscles. You can also provide cat trees to make climbing more accessible. Climbing is another great form of exercise for cats, especially as they lose some of their playfulness.
Birman cats are exceedingly intelligent, which makes them pretty trainable. They’re also very willing to interact with their human companions, leading to them being more people-pleasing than other cats.
They do best on positive reinforcement training, especially when praise and affection are utilized as rewards. You can use positive reinforcement training to teach just about anything, from using the litter box to walking on a leash. Just like dogs, cats do best when training starts early. If you get them used to the idea of training at a young age, they’re more likely to take it well into adulthood.
Birmans can easily learn basic commands like “sit” and “come.” It’s important to keep training sessions short, though, as they may have a shorter attention span than your average dog. However, an attention span is something that can be grown, so you may be able to extend the sessions to 5 or so minutes after some practice.
Of course, patience and consistency are always important in training anything. Cats can take longer to learn new things than dogs. Therefore, we recommend expecting new commands to take weeks or even months for your cat to master.
While Birmans don’t require as much grooming as some other felines, they still require a short brushing session a few times a week. This session helps prevent matting and reduces shedding. Use a brush with gentle bristles to remove as much loose fur as possible. You may need a comb to remove tougher tangles. However, if you brush several times a week, there likely won’t be that many tangles for you to remove.
Birmans tend to shed seasonally, so you may need to increase brushing frequency during the spring and fall months.
Sometimes, these cats may also need their ears cleaned. They aren’t particularly prone to ear infections, but that doesn’t mean that they won’t happen at all. If your cat’s ears look dirty, use a damp cotton ball to clean the outside. However, never shove anything deep into your cat’s ears.
Dental care is vital for Birman cats, as many felines end up with dental issues. Start early by using a cat-friendly toothbrush and toothpaste to clean your cat’s teeth. Do this a few times a week throughout your cat’s life to reduce the chance of decay and other dental issues.
Birman cats tend to be pretty healthy. However, that doesn’t mean they won’t end up with any health problems. Just like any cat breed, they can develop health issues under the right conditions. One of the most common health issues is hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This condition is sadly common in many cat breeds.
Birman cats may also end up with hemophilia, which is a blood clotting disorder. When a cat ends up with this condition, they will bleed more than your average cat. Cases can range from very mild to extremely serious. However, even more mild cases can be life-threatening during surgery or serious injury.
Like most cats, Birmans can also become obese, which often results from insufficient exercise and too much food. Free-feeding cats can always lead to obesity, especially if the cat is very food-oriented. While these felines aren’t particularly prone to obesity, about 60% of cats in the US are overweight. There is a very high chance your Birman will be, too, unless you take precautionary steps.

There aren’t huge differences between the males and females of this breed. However, both genders will show certain traits that the other won’t, especially if they aren’t spayed or neutered. For instance, females will go in heat, which can affect their temperament. They may become extremely loveable for a few days around their heat, or they may become more aggressive.
Females tend to go through more hormonal changes than males do. However, males may partake in more territorial marking if not spayed. Often, this starts around 6 months, but it may occur at any time. Some male cats don’t mark until they smell a female cat (even if that is only a passing whiff from the female two doors down).
Males are sometimes larger than females. However, these cats have a smaller weight variance than other breeds. Therefore, the sizing difference usually isn’t that clear. Plus, it’s completely possible for female cats to be bigger than males, too.

The legend of how these cats came to explain that Birmans were created out of temple cats, which were companions of the priests. Their sapphire blue eyes are thought to be a sign of their sacred nature.
The colored portion of their coat will darken as they age. The pigment in a Birman cat’s coat is affected by heat. Therefore, when they are first born, they are completely white (because they are warm). However, as they age, the pigment starts to darken. Senior cats tend to be cooler than adults, so they have the darkest pigment.
While Birmans are their own breed of cat, they likely have a genetic link to Siamese cats. They share the same rare coat pattern, for instance. Furthermore, in the West, Birman and Siamese cats were often crossed to introduce different traits into the breed.

Birman cats are very social, friendly felines that work well for families that spend a lot of time at home. If you want a very interactive cat, this breed tends to work well. They get along with just about anyone, including children and seniors, especially when socialized. They’re also very adaptable, which means that they can live equally well in most homes.
However, they do require a lot of attention. Because they’re so people-oriented, they can become lonely quickly. It’s important that you can dedicate enough time to these felines each day. Plus, they also need regular grooming, though this shouldn’t take more than 10 minutes a couple of times a week.
Featured Image Credit: Borkin Vadim, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Kristin is passionate about helping pet parents create a fulfilling life with their pets by informing them on the latest scientific research and helping them choose the best products for their pets. She currently resides in Tennessee with four dogs, three cats, two fish, and a lizard, though she has dreams of owning chickens one-day!
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The Birman, also called the "Sacred Cat of Burma",[1] is a domestic cat breed. The Birman is a long-haired, colour-pointed cat distinguished by a silky coat, deep blue eyes, and contrasting white "gloves" on each paw.
The breed name is derived from Birmanie, the French form of Burma. The breed was first recognised in 1925 in France.
No clear record of the breed's origin exists. They are most often claimed to have originated as the companions of temple priests in northern Burma in the Mount of Lugh.[1] Many stories exist of how the cats first came to France, including pairs of cats being given as a reward for helping defend a temple, or being smuggled out of Burma and Sweden by a Vanderbilt[who?].[1][2] Another pair of Birmans (or a pregnant female called Poupée de Maldapour) were said to have been stolen and later imported to France by Thadde Haddisch.[3] The first traces of historical Birmans go back to a Mme Leotardi[4] in Nice, France.
Birmans were almost wiped out as a breed during World War II. Only two cats were alive in Europe at the end of the war, a pair named Orloff and Xenia de Kaabaa, both belonging to Baudoin-Crevoisier. The foundation of the breed in postwar France were offspring of this pair. They had to be heavily outcrossed with long-hair breeds such as Persian and Siamese to rebuild the Birman breed. By the early 1950s, pure Birman litters were again being produced. The restored breed was recognized in Britain in 1965 and by the CFA in 1966.[5]
The first Birman cats were seal point. The blue point colour was introduced in 1959 using blue Persian lines. New colours were later added by English breeders including chocolate, red, and tabby/lynx points.[6] Birmans have also been used in the development of new breeds such as the Ragdoll.[7]
The Birman breed was first recognized in France by the Cat Club de France in 1925, then in England by the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy[8] (GCCF) in 1966 and in United States by the Cat Fanciers' Association[1] (CFA) in 1967. It was also recognized by the Canadian Cat Association (CCA) and the International Cat Association[9] (TICA) in 1979.
Birmans have a medium-sized, rectangular body with a broad face and distinct Roman nose. Their ears are ideally as wide on the base as they are tall and should be set as much on top of the head as on the side. The eyes are rounded and should be a deep sapphire blue.[10]
The Birman's fur is medium-long and should have a silky texture. Unlike a Persian or Himalayan, they have no undercoat, thus are much less prone to matting.[citation needed] Coat colour is always pointed, save for the contrasting pure white, symmetrical "gloves" on each paw that are the trademark of the breed. The white must involve all toes and in front must stop at the articulation or at the transition of toes to metacarpals. These gloves should extend noticeably further up the back of the leg (referred to as the "laces"), finishing with an inverted V extended half to three-fourths up the hock. Any other spot of white on the points is considered a serious fault. The base body colour is white to cream, with a wash of colour that corresponds to the points, but is much paler.[10]
Recognized point colours are seal, chocolate, red and the corresponding dilute varieties: blue, lilac and cream.[11] Tabby and tortie variations in seal, chocolate, blue or lilac are also allowed; other colours are in development.[10]
A 2008 study by Lipinski et al. found that the Birman has one of the lowest levels of genetic diversity of all the breeds studied.[12]
A study in the UK of veterinary records found the Birman to have a life expectancy of 14.39 years based on a sample of 38 cats, higher than the 11.74 average overall.[13]
Paltrinieri, Giraldi, Prolo, Scarpa, et al. (2017)[14] found that Birman cats have a high serum concentration of creatinine and symmetric dimethylarginine, but most Birman cats have higher concentrations of creatinine than SDMA. Creatinine is a creatine phosphate and is produced during metabolism of creatine, and is excreted through urination. SDMA is a methylated form of the amino acid arginine and is released during normal catabolisms of body proteins. Levels of creatinine and SDMA are found when Birman cats are tested for chronic kidney disease, for which they are at high risk. Birman cats are also at risk of developing feline infectious peritonitis; a disease that alters the renal function (creatinine levels in blood and urine) in the cats.[14] In a review of over 5,000 cases of urate urolithiasis the Birman was over-represented with an odds ratio of 6.77.[15]
Feline audiogenic reflex seizures (FARS), a recently discovered type of epilepsy in cats, is believed to be particularly common in Birman cats.[16]
Many Birman breeders follow the French tradition of assigning all kittens born in a particular year given names that begin with the same letter of the alphabet. Countries with breeders using this convention include Australia, Canada, France, New Zealand, the U.K., and the U.S. Kittens born in 2016 would start with 'N', and in 2017 'O', and so on.[1]
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your cat's connection to this breed and 20 others
Birmans are friendly, loyal cats of high intelligence who truly enjoy spending time with people. While they do have a curious and playful side, they are known as gentle, quiet cats who seek out cuddles and lap time with their favorite humans.
The Birman, also called the "Sacred Cat of Burma", is a strikingly beautiful longhaired cat. They are distinguished by their soft and silky coat, deep blue eyes, and contrasting white "gloves" on their paws, which are a trademark of the breed. Their coats are said to be easier to maintain than other longhaired breeds with brushing needed just a few times a week rather than daily. This is because they lack the dense undercoats characteristic of other longhaired cats that contribute to mats and tangles.
The exact history of this breed is unknown, though it may have originated in the country previously known as Burma, now called Myanmar, some 100 or more years ago. According to folklore, the remarkable beauty of the breed was said to be the work of divine intervention by a "blue-eyed goddess". The breed was nearly lost after World War II, with only two surviving cats. To restore the breed, these cats were outcrossed with longhaired Persians and Siamese. First brought to the United States in 1959, Birmans were recognized by the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) in 1967. The CFA states that most modern-day Birmans in the U.S. can be traced to England, France, Australia, and Germany.
The Birman is a docile, smart, and extremely sweet-natured cat. These gentle felines get along well with young children and other pets, making them excellent family companions. They are aﬀectionate and always eager to be near their favorite humans. Unlike their close relative, the Siamese, Birman cats are generally quiet, though may on occasion greet you with a very soft meow. These kitties require love and attention to thrive and do not like to be left alone for very long.
The Birman is at an increased risk for early renal failure, congenital cataracts, feline infectious peritonitis, and hemophilia B. This breed is also at a higher risk for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), the most common feline heart disease.
Their name derives from the French word Birmanie, which translates to Burma, or present-day Myanmar. Myanmar is a country in Southeast Asia, and is speculated to be a potential place of origin for the original breed.
First recognized by the Cat Club de France in 1925. It wasn't until 1966, however, that the breed was recognized in England by the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy, and by the Cat Fanciers' Association in 1967. It was accepted by the Canadian Cat Association and The International Cat Association in 1979.
They are one of the least genetically diverse cat breeds. A 2008 study by Lipinski et al. discovered that Birmans, along with the Havana Brown, Singapura, and Sokoke have very little genetic diversity among them. In contrast, Siberians were found to have the highest levels of heterozygosity values (i.e., inherited different versions/alleles of a genomic marker from each biological parent).
It may take up to two years for a Birman to develop its coat color. Birman kittens are born white, and they begin developing their pointed coloration within the first few weeks of kittenhood. Their final coat typically won't reach full development until two years of age.
Birmans are prone to obesity. These stocky and well-muscled cats love to eat. Pet parents should definitely encourage exercise and implement nutritionally-appropriate diets to help keep their Birmans healthy.
They are territorial and can be a bit jealous. Birmans are generally social cats, but they get very attached to their favorite humans. Birman kitties are known to be jealous if their human parent doesn't pay as much attention to them as they'd like. Though they can be territorial, Birmans are never aggressive.
The International Cat Association (TICA) “Introduction to the Birman”
Cat Fanciers' Association "About the Birman"
FETCH by WebMD "What to Know About a Birman Cat"
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Birman cats, known for their enchanting beauty and bright blue eyes, are a distinctive breed that exudes elegance and charm. Originating from Burma (now Myanmar), these feline companions are medium to large size with silky semi-longhair coats. Their color-point pattern is reminiscent of Siamese cats and luxurious fur comes in a variety of colors, with the signature darker points contrasting against a lighter body. Beyond their striking appearance, Birmans are revered for their friendly and affectionate nature, making them sought-after companions for cat lovers around the world.
When considering a Birman cat, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Birman kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Birman cat breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
A beautiful cat deserves a beautiful legend of origin. The Sacred Cat of Burma, as the Birman is sometimes called, is said to have acquired his striking appearance through the intervention of a blue-eyed goddess, who rewarded a temple cat’s love for and devotion to his priest by turning his white coat golden and changing his yellow eyes to blue. His paws remained white as a symbol of his purity. Ever since, the temple cats have borne the goddess’s marks of favor, and it was said that priests who died were reborn into the cats’ bodies.
How the cats really came to be is unknown. Theories include crosses of Siamese with Angoras or Persians, but when or where those original meetups occurred is unknown. They may have taken place in southeast Asia, between various cats who carried the genes for a pointed pattern, long hair and blue eyes, or the breed may have been created in France from cats imported by two Europeans, a Frenchman named Auguste Pavie, and a Major Gordon Russell, who were given a pair of temple cats in 1919 as a reward for aiding the priests.
The cats were shipped to France, but the male did not make it there alive. Before he died, however, he had impregnated the female, and her kittens helped to establish the breed in Europe. It was recognized in France in 1925 as the Sacre de Birmanie, from which comes the current breed name, Birman.
The cats were first imported to the United States in 1959 and were recognized by the Cat Fanciers Association in 1967. They are also recognized by the American Cat Fanciers Association, the Canadian Cat Association, the Cat Fanciers Federation and The International Cat Association.
Birmans typically weigh 6 to 12 pounds.
If you like the pointed pattern of the Siamese but not the yowly voice, a Birman might be the cat for you. He is a docile, quiet cat who loves people and will follow them from room to room. Expect the Birman to want to be involved in what you’re doing, and be grateful that he’s not as bossy as the Siamese.
Docile doesn’t mean dumb. The Birman is a smart cat and, of course, curious. He likes to explore his environment and has been known to get trapped underneath floors that are being replaced or to accidentally (maybe on purpose) go for a ride on top of a car. It’s a good idea to always keep tabs on where he is.
He communicates in a soft voice, mainly to remind you that perhaps it’s time for dinner or maybe for a nice cuddle on the sofa. He enjoys being held and will relax in your arms like a furry baby.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Problems that may affect the Birman include the following:

Despite the length of the Birman’s coat, it has a silky texture that doesn’t mat easily. Comb it weekly to remove dead hair and distribute skin oils. Birmans shed their winter coat in the spring, so you may want to comb more frequently then to remove loose hair. A warm bath can also help to loosen and remove the shedding coat. To accomplish a Birman bath, wetting the cat with a hand-held shower nozzle is often preferable to immersing him in a tub of water.
Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear. Keep the Birman’s litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene, and a clean litter box will help to keep the coat clean as well.
It’s a good idea to keep a Birman as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Birmans who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Birman has a silky, medium-length coat in the pointed pattern of the Siamese (meaning that the color is darker on the face, ears, legs and tail), a broad, rounded head topped with medium-size ears, bright blue eyes that give him a sweet expression, and four white feet that give him the appearance of wearing little white mittens.
This is a medium-size to large cat with a stocky, powerful body that belies his gentle demeanor. The medium-long to long coat has a silky texture and little undercoat, which means that it rarely mats. It forms a heavy ruff around the neck and is wavy on the belly.
A pale body, which varies in shade depending on the cat’s color, is set off by darker points. For instance, a seal point Birman has a body that is a pale fawn to cream color with a warm tone, gradually shading to a lighter color on the belly and chest. The points are a deep seal brown. On the front and back paws are white “gloves” ending in an even line across the paw. On the back paws, the gloves extend up the back of the leg (called laces) and end in a point or an inverted V shape. In the show ring, the symmetry of the “gloves and laces” are an important factor and may mean the difference between a kitten going on to a career as a show cat or as a pet.
The friendly, laidback Birman  is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect, and he doesn’t mind playing dress-up or going for a ride in a baby buggy.
He is happy to live with cat-friendly dogs, too, thanks to his amiable disposition. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!








Share article
--------------------------------------------------
