Cat Breeds
Stunning looks and an intriguing personality make the Bombay cat a charming addition to any household. These medium-sized shorthair cats are absolutely gorgeous thanks to their pure black coats and their brilliant copper-colored eyes.
Similar to the Burmese cats that make up the breed's foundation, Bombays tend to be chatty. At the same time though, they are less vocal and far less demanding than their Burmese cousins – probably due to the calming influence of the American and British shorthair cats that make up the other half of the Bombay hybrid.
As family pets go, Bombay cats are outstanding. Rather than bonding with a single individual, they are affectionate toward everyone they know – and they have a tendency to get along well with other pets.
The Bombay cat does not have any special nutritional requirements. At the same time, it's important to offer a high-quality diet to ensure that your pet stays healthy for years to come.
Bombay cats are low maintenance thanks to their shorthair coats. Still, you may want to give your cat a quick brush once a week or so, simply to remove loose hair and reduce the potential for the excessive shedding and hairballs that come with it.
The Bombay cat is frisky, with a strong play drive. These cats enjoy games of all kinds and they love to climb. A well-stocked basket of toys, multiple scratching posts, and a stout cat tree are essential for keeping this lively feline entertained.
These cats typically enjoy good health and has a fairly long lifespan that averages about 15 years. Even so, Bombays can occasionally have health concerns including breathing problems caused by their short nose, excessive tearing in the eyes, and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
If the Bombay cat reminds you of a miniature black panther, you’re not mistaken! Nikki Horner, founder of the Bombay cat breed, started out with the intention of developing a cat that looked like a small panther. She crossed a black American shorthair male with a female Burmese and eventually the Bombay came into being.
The breed took more than a decade to develop, with American shorthairs and British shorthairs contributing to the cat's medium size and robust nature. The first breeding took place in the 1950s and despite the cat's stunning appearance and appealing personality, CFA did not grant official acceptance for registration until 1970.
There is a slight difference between American Bombay cats and British Bombay cats. American Bombay cats have golden colored eyes, while British Bombay cats have green eyes.
Bombay kittens display mild but visible tabby striping at birth. The striping disappears by the time the cat reaches adulthood.
Bombay cats can be very demanding. They require plenty of attention and can be friendly toward strangers. While some cats are fine with being left to their own devices overnight, Bombay cats can become anxious when left alone for long periods of time. If you have a Bombay cat, you'll want to have them boarded or get help from a pet sitter even for short, overnight trips.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Bombay, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Bombay or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Bombay, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Bombay cats cost between $400-$2,000.
Bombay cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Bombay cat might weigh between 6-11 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8"-10" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Bombay is 12-16 years.
Bombay are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
Hey so I’m trying to make a present for a friend, and I was wondering what the average head size of these cats are I’m planning on making batman’s mask for her cat and it would really help if I could get some numbers from y’all
Hi Black,
A rough estimation for the head circumference of a Bombay cat would be around 8 to 10 inches (20 to 25 cm)
My  cat resembles a Bombay with the silky shiny  thick coat.  And loves to be brushed does not liked to be held and is a little aggressive toward me at bed time  has jumped up and grabbed my arm and has bitten.  Had to use a spray bottle to get into bed.  He’s better now maybe because he’s getting older
Thanks for sharing, Ginny, it sounds like your Bombay is a handful! If you’re still struggling at bed time, we’d recommend trying methods that don’t involve punishment (like the spray bottle). This method can be frightening for some cats and positive-reinforcement methods often offer more long-term success. We have an article on reasons to avoid punishment for cats and some alternatives here: https://cats.com/cat-punishment
I adopted a kitten from a local shelter who was described as a Bombay. That didn’t matter to me, but she has every characteristic listed for Bombay cats. All this to say that rescue kittens can be just as good if not better than buying a breed cat.
My Cat Murphy is 15yrs of age, is a big boy weighs 20 lbs. Has been very vocal in his box when defecating. Stool is soft and good amt. When he is being vocal, you would swear I’m killing him! It’s heart breaking to hear every nite. Made a video of his vocalization for the Vet. She did not respond. Suggestions?
Have you ruled out vision issues, deafness, or dementia? Loud meowing can be connected to these, and I wonder if he feels particularly vulnerable when in the litter box. Is this only at night, or only when he does “number two”? Does he also meow loudly at any other time?
I bealeve i have a  Bombay cat  she has a lot of the Charistics except she has green eyes and between me and my husband she follows me around like my shadow my husband when she feels like it not so much I adopted her from human susity when she was 9weeks but owner before was cruel to her but she is my baby I love her can you tell me if she is a bombay
No, I can’t! Officially, no cat can be considered a purebred unless they have paperwork from a breeder, and there’s no way we can make that assumption without a pedigree. Your cat is most likely a black non-purebred cat with green eyes and an attached disposition.
I have a Bombay (Pinkeyboy) who attacks my other male cat every chance he gets.  He was abandoned as a kitten and found up in a tree; probably never learned how to adequately socialize.  He’s very territorial and jealous if the other cat gets close to me.  They both can eat together and be fine.  Then the Bombay cat begins to seriously hurt and attack my older, gentle cat who is now quite scarce around the house because of this.  What would you suggest:  medication, shock collar and training or reintroducing them?  I’m really at my wits end.
Thanks for your help.
Hi Sue, thanks for commenting. This is a really difficult situation. I would advise reintroduction as the gentlest first step, making sure that you provide lots of separate resources for each of them—food and water bowls, litter, sleeping spots, hiding places, trees, etc. I know they’re eating together and seem fine, but I do wonder if there are any other hot spots or territorial tensions building up that you’re not aware of. Of course, you can’t provide a clone for yourself so both cats can spend time with you at once, so that’ll be a challenge regardless. You might find our article on aggression in cats helpful.
i have my own Bombay laid up on me right now, i am so in love! any tips for introducing him to my two, big Doggers?! i love them all so very much!!! [:
Great question, Erin! The truth is there are a lot of factors at play here. One of which is your dogs’ personalities. Are they very excitable? Have they been around cats before? If you’re not sure how they’ll react, it may be best to go the extra cautious route.
Start by putting them in rooms next to each other and feed them a meal on either side of the door so they get used to being in proximity. Once everyone can eat calmly, introduce them in a neutral room with your dogs on a leash and the cat roaming free (neutral room meaning not your cat’s sanctuary and not the room your dogs have claimed). Throughout the encounter, ask your dogs to sit and reward them each time they do – this will help teach them calm behavior around the cat. Be sure to give your cat some treats as well.
Repeat these sessions daily, keeping them short enough that no one gets aggressive or anxious. It may help to save the tastiest treats for these sessions. When the sessions start going well, let the animals loose together but keep your dog’s leash on in case you need to step in quickly. You can always go back to the previous step if things get tense. From there it’s just a matter of time. Depending how calm the pets are with each other, you may still want to separate them when you aren’t home to supervise.
Good luck with your beautiful Bombay and your pups!
i have my own Bombay laid up on me right now, i am so in love! any tips for introducing him to my two, big Doggers?! i love them all so very much!!!
Hi Erin,
Mallory just did a wonderful video on the topic a couple of weeks ago, check it out here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3cJD3tsvKgQ
On time spent with my cat who is a bombay. How much time is good? Currently I spend about 4 to 5 hours a day with him now. The rest of the time I’m around but not always with him. He loves the oustside but I bring him in at night. He seems very happy and loving I just wanted make sure my time with him is enough.
The amount of time spent on social interactions varies based on the individual cat. If you’re letting him outside, you should be out there with him. Harness/leash train him and make it more bonding time. It’s highly unsafe to leave a cat outside on his or her own, as it opens up the possibility of human cruelty (especially with black cats because many people still harbor superstitious nonsense about them, thinking they’re “evil”), wildlife (they have a lot of predators and they also kill too many birds), weather, and simply being able to find them if there’s an emergency and you need to leave (because he should absolutely be brought inside then), and of course with such an attractive breed. It’s also a matter of life-or-death to keep a cat that goes outdoors on Revolution. It’s (as far as I know) the best protection for fleas, ticks, and mosquitos. Mosquitos carry heartworms (and can infect with a single bite), which are 100% fatal to cats. A heartworm infection is bad for dogs, who must undergo traumatizing treatments to be cured, but there is no cure for a feline heartworm infection. Their sensitive little bodies can’t handle the chemical cocktail given to dogs.
Cats like having solo time, nap time, play time, cuddle time, and food time. If your cat is getting a good balance of those things and seems happy/loving and healthy, you’re probably okay.
Most importantly, make sure you’re feeding him adequate food (at the very least, it should be high protein with taurine), giving him access to plenty of clean/fresh water, and taking him to the vet for checkups at least once every six months. You should also have annual dental cleanings done at the vet’s, along with full blood panels twice yearly.
Good luck!
Great comment, Veronica. Thanks for sharing!
--------------------------------------------------
The Bombay cat is a short-haired breed of domestic cat. Bombays are glossy solid black cats with a muscular build, and have characteristic large bright copper-golden eyes.[1][2][3] The breed is named after the Indian city of Bombay (Mumbai),[4] referring to the habitat of the Indian black leopard.[5]
There exist two different variants of Bombay breed; the American Bombay and the British Bombay. American-type Bombays were developed by crossbreeding sable American Burmese and black American Shorthair cats,[1][5] to produce a cat of mostly Burmese type, but with a sleek, panther-like black coat with copper-golden eyes. British-type Bombays are solid black-coloured Asian Self cats under the Asian group, a group of European Burmese and chinchilla Persian crosses.[1][6] The British-type Bombay originated from three mismatings of European Burmese with black domestic short-haired cats.[7]
Both types of Bombay cats are selectively bred by breeders and pedigreed in multiple major cat fancier and breeder organisations. Similar to other officially recognised cat breeds, the term "Bombay" is only meant to be used for cats from this specific breed, which are by definition all purebred cats with a known and formally registered ancestry, also known as the cat's pedigree or "paperwork".[8][9]
The breed was developed by Nikki Horner, a breeder from Louisville, Kentucky, who, starting in 1958, attempted to create a breed of cat that resembled a miniature black panther.[4][5][10] The first attempt was a failure, but the second, in 1965, was successful. The breed was officially recognised and registered by the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) in 1970 and The International Cat Association (TICA) in 1979.[4][10]
The Bombay cat is a relatively rare breed among pedigree cats, both in the American and British types. The British type are pedigreed as Asian Self cats under the Asian group. In 2023, only 160 kittens of the total Asian group were pedigreed with the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF).[11]
The American type is relatively more popular compared to the British type. In France, an average of 45 Bombay kittens were born yearly between 2003 and 2022.[12] PawPeds is the largest cat pedigree database worldwide. As of June 2024, there were a total of 1,717 (including deceased cats) Bombay cats registered with PawPeds, and 406 of them were born after January 2000.[13]
The Bombay is described as the "patent leather kid with the new penny eyes."[2][5] The Bombay is a short-haired breed of domestic cat, closely related to the Burmese. Bombay cats are characterised as having an all-black coat, including the whiskers, and black skin, including the soles, nose leather and mouth. The close-lying, sleek and glossy black coat is of mature cats is coloured to the roots with no paling (exceptions are allowed in juvenile cats less than 2 years old).[4] The eyes are always copper-golden coloured,[1][2] and green eyes are not allowed.[2][3]
The Bombay has a medium-sized, Oriental-type body build that is muscular.[1][4] Their weight ranges between 2.5–5 kg (5.5–11.0 lb),[1] with males typically being heavier than females.[3][14]
Body: Medium size, graceful and elongated Oriental-type body.[1] Elegant tail of medium length.[3]
Eyes: The large, round eyes are set far apart[3] and are always copper-coloured,[2] but can range from bright orange to warm golden.[3] Green eyes are not allowed.[2][3]
Coat: Short, dense and shiny, tight to the body, with a lacquered sheen.[15] Only completely solid black coloured coats are allowed.[2][3]
Weight: For females, the average is 2.5–3.5 kg (6–8 lb). For males, the average is 3.5–5 kg (8–11 lb).[1][6]
A healthy Bombay has an average lifespan of 15 years, and some have been known to live up to 20.[14] They can have some nasal and sinus problems, and gingivitis.[16] Their food intake should be controlled to avoid overfeeding.[16]
The personality of the Bombay tends to be highly social, is marked by strong attachment to families, and is typified by craving attention. As a breed, these characteristics make them highly suitable for children.[17]
Bombay cats are happy and comfortable being strictly indoor cats, and can comfortably live in a single room apartment, so long as all of their needs are met.[18] They prefer quiet surroundings.[18]
Media related to Bombay cats at Wikimedia Commons
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Viktor Sergeevich, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 17, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Known for their midnight black coat and glossy golden eyes, the Bombay cat breed is a sleek parlor panther that makes an amazing pet for almost any household. An athletic and affectionate feline, the Bombay was developed by breeding a black American shorthair with a sable Burmese. The result is a shiny, satiny kitty that loves to love.
If you’re considering adding a Bombay cat to your household, here is everything that you need to know about this beautiful breed.
Height:
6–9 inches
Weight:
7–11 pounds
Lifespan:
12–16 years
Colors:
Black
Suitable for:
Families with pets or young children, active couples
Temperament:
Friendly, affectionate, energetic, intelligent

When superstitious people see a black cat, they assume they’re doomed to years of bad luck. When Bombay owners set their eyes on their beautifully black cat, they revel in how fortunate they are to own one!
Recognized by the Cat Fanciers Association in 1970, the Bombay cat is an extremely popular breed. Due to this popularity, Bombay kittens often come with a hefty price tag.
That’s not to say that there aren’t Bombay kittens available at cheaper costs. But buyer beware! Purebred kittens that are sold well below the regular price may come from kitten mills. Much like puppy mills, these large-scale cat breeding operations want to make a quick profit and often completely disregard the welfare of the animals they breed and sell.
If you notice any of the aforementioned red flags, take your business elsewhere. Despite the appealingly low cost, kittens from kitten mills have numerous health and psychological issues that can haunt them for years to come.

The Bombay cat breed is a social, fun-loving, and extremely smart feline. They love people and other household pets. It’s not a rare sight for a Bombay cat to cuddle up and nap with a dog. However, they like to be the top cat in a multi-cat household and expect all other felines to bow down to them.
You can easily teach your Bombay cat tricks and learn how to walk on a leash. It’s important to keep this inquisitive kitty mentally stimulated to keep boredom away.
Yes! The Bombay cat loves people and will get along with everyone in the household, including young children. Plus, thanks to their cuddly side, they really are the perfect cat to join your little family.
Yes, the Bombay cat breed does get along with other pets. However, they will do their best as the only cat in the house. You might need to keep an eye on themwhen around other cats and pets until they get acquainted with one another.

As you can see, the Bombay is an exceptional breed of cat to own. But like all pets, they do require specific kinds of care. From their diet requirements to their grooming needs, here is everything you need to know about caring for a Bombay.
While the Bombay cats don’t have any special breed-specific diet requirements, they do need a high-quality, high-protein diet. Their main diet should include cat kibble. However, you can add a scoop of wet food to their meals once a day to keep them properly hydrated. Keep in mind that your Bombay’s dietary needs will change as they age. Additionally, always provide your cat with access to fresh, clean water.
The Bombay purebred cat is an athletic, energetic feline. As such, you should provide them with ample amounts of physical exercise every day. Whether you engage them with interactive cat toys, such as a laser, or take them for walks around the backyard in a cat harness, aim to physically engage your Bombay for at least an hour each day.
In addition to physical exercise, your cat needs to be mentally stimulated too. You can do this by grooming them, teaching them fun new tricks, and providing them with fun, thought-provoking toys.
As a highly intelligent feline, the Bombay cat can learn basic tricks with ease. Positive reinforcement combined with a lot of patience works best for this breed.
Bombay cats are very low maintenance when it comes to their grooming needs. As self-groomers, your cat will keep themselves clean and shiny. However, be sure to brush them once a week to keep their coat glistening. Trim their nails as needed, and brush their teeth two to three times per week.
The Bombay is an overall healthy cat. However, as with any other cat breed, they may develop health issues later on in life. Issues that your Bombay can suffer from include excessive tearing from the eyes and breathing troubles because of their short snout.
This is why it is so important to run, not walk, away from any Bombay breeder who does not have any vet or vaccination records for their cats.
Male Bombay cats will be a tad larger than female ones. However, the two sexes do not have any huge personality differences, so this shouldn’t be a huge determining factor when choosing your cat.

Despite their exotic name, the Bombay isn’t from India. They gained their namesake from their leopard-like looks.
Don’t be surprised if your Bombay gets underneath the covers with you! These cats are snuggle bugs and love cuddling their humans.

If you’re looking for a social, lovable, and smart feline to bring home, the Bombay may be ideal for you. This wild-looking black cat is great with kids and dogs and thrives on social interaction.
It’s important to buy a Bombay from a reputable and responsible cat breeder who can provide vet and vaccine records. Never be tempted by the low prices of a kitten mill.
Bombay cats need daily amounts of exercise, mental engagement, and tons of social interaction. Pet yours, cuddle on the couch with them, and never leave them alone for long periods of time.
If you’re considering adding a Bombay cat to your family, we highly recommend you do so!
See also:
Featured Image Credit: Viktor Sergeevich, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Breeders carefully crossed sable Burmese and black American Shorthair cats in the mid-20th century to create the Bombay cat, a breed renowned for its striking appearance and affectionate nature. The vibrant city of Bombay, now Mumbai, India, inspired the name for the Bombay cat.
Furthermore, what sets this breed apart is its sleek, black coat that shines like polished patent leather, accentuating its muscular and compact body. With large, expressive copper or gold eyes, the Bombay’s gaze is both alluring and captivating. Moreover, beyond its exquisite physical traits, this charming cat captivates hearts with its friendly and outgoing personality. These affectionate, social, and intelligent cats forge strong bonds with their human companions.
When considering a Bombay cat, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Bombay kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Bombay breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Cat breeders are an experimental lot, creating distinctive new breeds either by building on natural genetic mutations or by crossing breeds to achieve a new look, color or pattern. The Bombay, named for the exotic port city of India, has no connection with the subcontinent but was created from crosses between sable Burmese and black American Shorthairs to resemble a black panther in miniature.
Breeder Nikki Horner of Louisville, Kentucky, is credited with developing the Bombay, starting in the late 1950s. Her goal was a sleek, shiny black cat with a muscular body and friendly temperament. British breeders achieved the same look and personality with crosses of Burmese and black domestic shorthairs.
The Cat Fanciers Association gave the Bombay full recognition in 1978. Today the breed is recognized by all cat associations. To maintain their body type and coat texture, Bombays may be outcrossed to sable Burmese. The CFA also permits outcrosses to black American Shorthairs, but this is rarely done because of differences in body type.
The Bombay typically weighs between 8 and 15 pounds. Males are generally larger than females.
The lively and affectionate Bombay loves people and is adaptable to many different environments and lifestyles. His calm nature makes him a good apartment dweller, and he is amenable to life with other pets, although he definitely wants to be top cat.
Expect to find the Bombay hogging the warmest spot in the house. That includes under the covers at bedtime. Most will converse with their people in a distinctive but not loud voice. Bombays are often good at playing fetch, and some have learned to walk on leash. This is a smart cat who loves to play and will thrive with a family who is willing to teach him tricks, play games with him and provide him with plenty of interactive toys.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Bombays are generally healthy, although one of the genetic diseases seen in Burmese has also been seen in Bombays:
The Bombay’s short, sleek coat is easily cared for with a few strokes of the hand or at most weekly brushing or rubdown with a chamois to remove dead hair, distribute skin oil and polish the coat to its gleaming best. A bath is rarely necessary.
Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Like all cats, Bombays are very particular about bathroom hygiene. Plan to spay or neuter your Bombay at 6 to 9 months of age. It is not unheard of for Bombays to reach sexual maturity as early as 5 months of age.
It’s a good idea to keep a Bombay as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Bombays who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
Except for his dramatic black coat, the Bombay looks much like the Burmese, but with a few physical differences such as a larger, longer body and longer legs. He has a rounded head with medium-size ears set wide apart, eyes that range in color from gold to copper, and a straight, medium-length tail. The short, fine coat feels satiny to the touch and shines like patent leather.
Although the gene for the black coat is dominant, a sable-colored kitten is sometimes born in a Bombay litter. Some associations permit these kittens to be registered as Burmese.
The Bombay is a medium-size cat; when lifted, he feels heftier than he looks. The breed develops slowly and males may not reach full size and musculature until they are 2 years old.
The outgoing Bombay is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect. He lives peacefully with cats and dogs who respect his authority. Always introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!










Share article
--------------------------------------------------
The Bombay cat was developed by breeding black American Shorthair cats and sable Burmese cats to bring about a sleek panther-like cat.
Cats of the Asian group are given the name Bombay cats. It is also known as the Black Mamba or mini-panther. In fact the Bombay cat was developed by Nikki Horner, a breeder from Kentucky, USA.
In 1976 the Bombay cat was successfully bred and was recognized and registered by the Cat Fanciers' Association in 1970 and also the International Cat Association.
As a short-haired cat, the Bombay is related to the Burmese cat. It’s a medium-sized cat, muscular, lithe, and agile – like a black panther.
Bombay cats are very social, getting on well with all their human family members. They’re affectionate and like to demand attention from their humans.
They’re typical cats in many ways and are curious and alert. You wouldn’t describe the Bombay as an independent cat breed, although the older ones do become more independent as they mature but they are cats that dislike being left alone for long periods of time.
They are however adaptable to different lifestyles and can easily learn new tricks. They’re intelligent cats and will need toys that make him think. He always loves to play with the toys close to his human owner and has quite a loud meow and purr to voice his feelings
These sleek panther-like cats are a perfect choice if you want a cat that loves its human family.
Every cat has got their peculiarities and these Bombay cats like heat – you’ll always find them curled up close to the fire or heaters. On a sunny day they’ll want to be outside soaking up the warmth.
Provide your Bombay with all the things he loves and he is guaranteed to make you the most awesome feline companion.
With good care these amazing cats can live to be between 15 and 20 years of age. Your Bombay, just like with other pets, can have any one of the health problems that cats are known for.
One of these diseases is craniofacial defect where there is a deformity of the head. Kittens with this deformity are always euthanized.
Vomiting is a sign that all is not well with your cat. Vomiting is actually a common problem with cats and is indicative of a number of causes. It could mean your cat has eaten something inedible, it could mean an infection or even a urinary tract problem.
Remember that ongoing vomiting can lead to dehydration so if your cat continues you must get him to the vet as soon as possible.
Feline Lower Urinary Tract Disease for instance can affect both your male or female cat. There are a number of causes of which stress and being overweight are just two.
You’ll notice your cat battling to urinate, blood in the urine, lack of appetite, restless and licking around the urinary area because of pain. Certainly, this is one reason you want to get your beloved cat to the vet.
The Bombay isn’t a heavy shedder and requires very little grooming.
Provide your Bombay with the right kind of nutrition so that it has every chance to be strong and healthy. Cats are carnivores and you want to be sure that he gets the best food. Make sure that he gets home-made or commercially manufactured cat food that is high in meat protein. Do research or check with your vet to make sure he is being fed the best food there is for his age and activity levels.
Your Bombay requires a constant source of fresh, cool water night and day.
Check inside his mouth from time to time to ensure there are no rotting teeth causing him pain and discomfort. Also, check inside the ears ad make sure they aren’t red which could indicate an infection.
Always get your pet to the vet immediately you suspect that something is wrong.
Keep your cat’s litter box spotlessly clean.
Neuter or spay your Bombay cat to prevent unwanted kittens.Spaying and neuterings as some very beneficial health advantages for your furry friend as well.
--------------------------------------------------
