Learn more about the boxer breed that is sure to keep you on your toes – if you can keep up with the pace

Life expectancy: 10-12 years
Size: 23-25-inches (male); 21.5-23.5 inches (female)
Coat: Short, smooth
Temperament: Energetic, confident, loyal, friendly, playful, intelligent
Exercise needs: More than two hours a day
Origin/native country: Germany
Boxers were originally bred as hunting dogs and they can trace their roots to the ancient Assyrians, although the breed we love today dates back to the late 1800s in Germany.
Once prized for their high prey drive, they’ve proven to be highly adaptable and flexible, used as war dogs, cattle dogs and watchdogs as well as serving with police officers. They became popular as pets after World War II when returning soldiers began introducing them into their homes.
Independent-minded, energetic and strong, boxers remain popular today even though they can be rather demanding of an owner’s time and attention. But that’s because, with solid investment, these dogs give so much back in return. So let’s take a look at what drives these dogs and whether or not you should be considering one for your home.
If you’re considering introducing a boxer into your family, you need to be sure you can devote plenty of time to exercise.
“Boxers have a lot of energy,” says expert vet Dr Hannah Godfrey. “It’s quite common for me to get a very energetic and friendly greeting when a boxer enters my consultation room, and they often race in with their owner who is desperately clinging on to the leash!”
Boxers require a minimum of two hours of exercise daily and this needs to be a mix of walks and runs, both on and off lead (avoiding the heat as much as possible because their shorter snouts means they overheat quickly).
To that end, it would be a good idea to identify a large safe and secure area for them to exercise freely and to choose routes that will allow them plenty of opportunity to sniff around and explore their surroundings.
Get the best advice, tips and top tech for your beloved Pets
At the same time, you should seek to mentally stimulate a boxer given they are one of the most playful dog breeds. This can be simple enough – there are some good games to play with dogs, such as hide-and-seek and tuggy, for instance. It’s also worth investing in the best dog puzzle toys and doing so will lead to a happier family life.
“With such a strong, powerful, and high energy dog, it’s really important to give boxers plenty of exercise otherwise, they tend to get bored and become harder to control, especially around the house,” Dr Godfrey says.
According to canine psychology expert Stanley Coren, author of “The Intelligence of Dogs”, Boxers are ranked 48th in the “smart dog breed league”. This means it will take a good number of repetitions for a boxer to understand a new command and they’ll only tend to obey a first command half the time.
Even so, with perseverance, they’ll soon pick up on what you’re trying to teach and you just need to figure out when a boxer is going to be more receptive to training.
“While Boxers are clever dogs, they can have a short attention span and become bored easily, making training more difficult,” says Dr Godfrey. “Making sure that you wait until you have their full attention before beginning a training session is important.”
Try exercising a boxer beforehand to allow them to burn off some of their energy and keep training sessions short. Start them young, work on preventing them from jumping up at people, and socialize them too. With positive reinforcement, you’ll make great progress.
“Using a high-value treat or toy to really motivate them will make training more successful,” Dr Godfrey says.
When properly socialized and trained, boxers make good family pets. They’re protective, loyal and patient and among the friendliest dog breeds. Since they’re alert, they’ll also act as great guard dogs.
“Boxers are generally playful, affectionate, and good with children,” Dr Godfrey affirms. “However, being such large, strong, and energetic dogs means that they can easily play more roughly or knock small children over. Therefore, as with any dog, it’s important to supervise them closely around children and train them so that you have more control.”
Boxers will also be good around other pets and animals if they’re introduced early but you need to bear in mind their high prey drive which means you should only allow a boxer near a small pet under supervision.

Boxers are not typically aggressive but they can show aggression or be reactive if they are not well-trained or if they are in a stressful situation. If they bark then it’s generally a sign of a problem rather than aggression. They may be tapping into their guarding instinct to alert you to strangers around the home, for example, or indicating boredom and lack of exercise.
It’s important to note that boxers love being around humans and can suffer separation anxiety which is another reason why you should only get a boxer if you have plenty of time for one.
Since boxers have short coats, you only need to run one of the best dog brushes over their hair once a week and give them a bath once a month. There will be some seasonal shedding in Spring and Fall but it’s certainly nothing one of the best vacuum cleaners for pet hair can’t deal with.
Just pay special attention to any skin folds that may trap dirt and bacteria and regularly trim their nails. Be aware too that boxers – due to the shape of their mouth – can suffer excessive drooling but a quick wipe with a towel can suffice.
Boxers are generally healthy dogs but there are some issues that regularly crop up including hip dysplasia, brachycephalic obstructive airway syndrome (which is common in brachycephalic breeds) and dental disease.
“From my experience working in practice, I see boxers most often for itchy skin, ear infections, heart problems, and skin lumps,” says Dr Godfrey.
“Thankfully, although allergies in dogs [a common cause of itchy skin and rashes in boxers] cannot be cured, they can be controlled with medication. It’s really important to monitor your boxer for any lumps, as they are also prone to certain types of cancers.”
If you have a lot of time on your hands to train, exercise and keep a boxer company, then you will have a very social, loyal, loving dog on your hands.
They’ll help guard your property and family, make you smile with their goofiness and accompany you on runs (although you may struggle to keep up because being one of the fastest dog breeds they can reach speeds of 45mph!).
You’d preferably have a large yard or space to allow them to exercise but keep them stimulated mentally and physically and you’ll have few problems.
The Complete Guide To Boxer Dogs | Amazon
Using interviews with five top boxer breeders, this book has created an in-depth look at what it really takes to successfully live with, raise, and train a Boxer.
Want to learn more about this breed? Here are our favorite facts about boxers
Dr Hannah Godfrey is a small animal vet who graduated from the Royal Veterinary College in 2011 and began work straight away at a busy mixed practice. Initially, she treated all species, but focussed on small animals from 2014. She has a passion for soft tissue surgery, ultrasound, and canine and feline dentistry, having completed additional training in these areas.
Edited by Georgia Guerin.
This feature was last updated on March 19, 2025.
David Crookes has been a journalist for more than 20 years and he has written for a host of magazines, newspapers, websites and books including World of Animals, BBC Earth, Dogs and Canines, Gadget and The Independent. Born in England, he lives in a household with two cats but he’s also keenly interested in the differences between the huge number of dog breeds — in fact, you can read many of his breed guides here on PetsRadar. With a lifelong passion for technology, too, he’s always on the lookout for useful devices that will allow people to spend more time with their pets.
Staffordshire Bull Terrier: This ‘eager to please but excitable’ breed makes for a ‘lovely family dog’
Bull Terriers have a unique ‘Marmite’ look but they can be energetic, playful pets
12 things you should know about having a baby when you’ve already got a dog
--------------------------------------------------
Intelligent, playful and energetic, Boxers can adapt to most environments as long as they get plenty of exercise. They might come from a hunting background, but their even temperaments make them kind and charismatic pets.
Boxer dogs are loyal, loving and athletic. This firm, muscular breed is considered a good dog for families, especially if you have an active lifestyle.
Boxer dogs are loyal, loving and athletic. This firm, muscular breed is considered a good dog for families, especially if you have an active lifestyle.
Bright and willing to learn, Boxers have been used as military messengers, guide dogs and in rescue operations. They thrive on human interaction and playtime, including running after tennis balls and even swimming.
Bright and willing to learn, Boxers have been used as military messengers, guide dogs and in rescue operations. They thrive on human interaction and playtime, including running after tennis balls and even swimming.
Do Boxers shed? Yes, at certain times of year they can heavily moult their short hair; this is known as “blowing coat” and usually happens in spring and autumn.
Do Boxers shed? Yes, at certain times of year they can heavily moult their short hair; this is known as “blowing coat” and usually happens in spring and autumn.
Boxer puppies continue growing for a long time, and will continue to broaden into adulthood, so it’s important to support their growth with the right nutrition.
Boxer puppies continue growing for a long time, and will continue to broaden into adulthood, so it’s important to support their growth with the right nutrition.
Boxers have received an unfair reputation as dangerous and aggressive over the years. However, these characteristics are not in their nature. Whilst a powerful and muscular breed, the Boxer temperament is actually playful, loving and loyal and they make ideal family pets. However, it’s worth noting that Boxers are strong, powerful dogs so need a fit and healthy owner who will be able to manage them.
When it comes to their families, Boxers are nothing if not loyal and this fun-loving breed is one of the friendliest. However, their intense loyalty can make the Boxer wary of new people and animals and early socialisation is key to nurturing a friendly, confident pet.
Boxers are generally friendly with anyone they consider to be part of their “pack” – cats included! Boxer dogs are usually a good fit for multi-pet households, but beware – their boisterous behaviour and playful nature might prove too much for other pets!
As a larger breed, Boxers can take a bit longer to reach their full size. Most Boxers will be fully grown by between 18 to 24 months. A typical height for an adult Boxer is between 53 to 63 cm and they can weigh in at anywhere between 25 and 32 kg.
The typical Boxer “hug” is also known as a “box” – it’s where they get their name! This is when a Boxer will sit or stand on their hind legs and kick out their front paws. As a playful breed, it’s no surprise that one of the main reasons a Boxer will adopt this stance is when they’re ready for games. However, this affectionate breed has also been known to use their front paws to “hug” their humans when they want some attention.
Boxers have received an unfair reputation as dangerous and aggressive over the years. However, these characteristics are not in their nature. Whilst a powerful and muscular breed, the Boxer temperament is actually playful, loving and loyal and they make ideal family pets. However, it’s worth noting that Boxers are strong, powerful dogs so need a fit and healthy owner who will be able to manage them.
When it comes to their families, Boxers are nothing if not loyal and this fun-loving breed is one of the friendliest. However, their intense loyalty can make the Boxer wary of new people and animals and early socialisation is key to nurturing a friendly, confident pet.
Boxers are generally friendly with anyone they consider to be part of their “pack” – cats included! Boxer dogs are usually a good fit for multi-pet households, but beware – their boisterous behaviour and playful nature might prove too much for other pets!
As a larger breed, Boxers can take a bit longer to reach their full size. Most Boxers will be fully grown by between 18 to 24 months. A typical height for an adult Boxer is between 53 to 63 cm and they can weigh in at anywhere between 25 and 32 kg.
The typical Boxer “hug” is also known as a “box” – it’s where they get their name! This is when a Boxer will sit or stand on their hind legs and kick out their front paws. As a playful breed, it’s no surprise that one of the main reasons a Boxer will adopt this stance is when they’re ready for games. However, this affectionate breed has also been known to use their front paws to “hug” their humans when they want some attention.
Find out more about some of the UK's most popular dog breeds and discover which breed could be your ideal canine companion with our breed selector quiz.
Boxers  sometimes suffer with certain health conditions and may require treatment. Petplan dog insurance offers peace of mind that they will always be protected.
                        

                    



i

Physical & online consultations




i

Diagnostic tests





i

Prescription medicine





i

Surgery & specialised care




i

Physiotherapy & pet therapies




i

Hereditary conditions




i

Behavioural conditions




i

Congenital conditions




i

Dental illness & injury




i

Cancer treatments


Get a Boxer quote
--------------------------------------------------
GIVING BOXERS A NEW LEASH ON LIFE
Boxers are large, muscular, square-headed dogs who look imposing--that is, until you look into their eyes and see the mischief and joy of life reflected there. Because of their playful nature and boundless energy, they are sometimes called the "Peter Pan" of the dog breeds. Boxers aren't considered fully mature until they are three years old, meaning they have one of the longest puppyhood in the world of dogs.
With minimal grooming needs and legendary patience and gentleness with children, Boxers are great family companions, as long as you provide them with the physical exercise and mental stimulation they need. If you're willing and able to provide them with adequate exercise in the form of walks or runs, they can even adapt to apartment living, so long as they are able to be close to their beloved people
Boxers are renowned for their great love of and loyalty to their families. They often are distrustful of strangers at first, but will not be aggressive unless they perceive a threat to their families. Boxers are so loving that they often think they are lapdogs and try to lie as close to you as possible.
Boxer owners around the world take special delight in their beloved dogs' clownish behavior. Boxers are high-spirited, happy, and energetic. They often paw, cat-like, at their toys, food bowls, and even their owners. When they are excited, they often "kidney bean," a little dance that involves twisting their bodies into a semi-circle, similar to the shape of a kidney bean, and then turning in circles. Boxers also make a unique sound, called a "woo-woo," when they want something or are excited. It is not exactly a bark, but rather sounds as though they are saying "woo-woo," look at me!
Boxers aren't the breed for everyone, but if you like a big dog who likes to cuddle, don't mind a little drool between friends, want a dog that will delight you with his clownish antics and yet be gentle with your children, and most of all, if you are prepared to keep your Boxer physically and mentally stimulated, the Boxer just might be the right dog for you!

Boxer Traits
Boxers are high-energy dogs and need a lot of exercise. Make sure you have the time, desire, and energy to give them the play and activity they need.
Boxers are exuberant and will greet you ecstatically.
Early, consistent training is critical--before your Boxer gets too big to handle!
Although they are large, Boxers are not "outdoor dogs." Their short noses and short hair make them uncomfortable in hot and cold weather, and they   need to be kept as housedogs.
Boxers mature slowly and act like rambunctious puppies for several years.
Boxers don't just like to be around their family--they need to be around them! If left alone for too long or kept in the backyard away from people, they can become ill-tempered and destructive.
Boxers drool, a lot. Boxers also snore, loudly.
Although they have short hair, Boxers shed, especially in the spring.
Boxers are intelligent and respond well to firm but fun training. They also have an independent streak and don't like to be bossed around or treated harshly. You'll have the biggest success in training your Boxer if you can make it fun for him.
Care
Boxers are housedogs. Their short noses and short coats make them unsuited to living outdoors, although they'll enjoy having a fenced yard to play in.
Boxers love to play. To keep their muscles toned and satisfy their need for exercise, plan on playing with them or walking them at least twice a day for half an hour. Play fetch, take him for long walks, or get him involved in dog sports such as agility or flyball. Giving your Boxer plenty of daily exercise is the best way to ensure good behavior. A tired Boxer is a good Boxer.
Training is essential for the Boxer. He's so big and strong that he can accidentally hurt people by knocking them over if he doesn't learn to control his actions. The Boxer's temperament plays a role in his trainability. He's happy and excitable, bouncy, and a bit of a mischief-maker. Getting him to take training seriously requires starting early and using firm, fair training methods and positive motivation in the form of praise, play, and food rewards. Be consistent. Your Boxer will notice any time you let him get away with something, and he'll push to see what else he can get away with. Before you head to training class, settle him down a little with an energetic walk or play session
Crate training is recommended.
Children and other pets
Boxers love kids and are great playmates for active older children. They can be too rambunctious for toddlers, however, and can accidentally knock them down in play.
Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he's eating or sleeping or to try to take the dog's food away. No dog should ever be left unsupervised with a child.
Boxers can get along well with other dogs and cats, especially if they're raised with them.

(information taken from www.dogtime.com/dog-breeds/boxer)
--------------------------------------------------
The Germans developed many breeds suitable for helping with various jobs. Its ancestors included the Bullenbeisser, a breed used for hunting big game, and the English Bulldog. In the 1800s, the prototype of the Boxer was promoted by three men, Konig, Hopner and Robert, who brought the breed recognition throughout the world. Although Boxers were originally used as a farm helper, service dog or household guardian, today they are mainly companions, who might bark a warning. Legend has it that the breed's name came from their habit of dancing on two legs and push playing with their front paws. Whether true or not, two Boxers who meet are often seen carrying on the tradition.
Well-bred Boxers are happy, always eager to join in wrestling or a game. They dote on children, especially “their” kids, but may roughhouse too much for little ones. Playing the clown one moment and hitting a noble stance the next, Boxers fit in almost any role. They might be too active for some people, but those who like a good romp, whether playing ball or hide and seek, won't find a better buddy. Boxers can be hesitant around strangers but will seek attention from their own family.
Clean lines show off the Boxer's well-muscled body. Her fawn or brindle coat, which is usually trimmed with white markings, is short. Eyes are dark seeming to issue an invitation to play. Boxers in the Western Hemisphere are cropped and docked. In many other countries, no cosmetic surgeries may be performed, so they are au natural. Since white dogs were used in the development of the breed, white puppies can appear in litters. Care must be taken in determining that deafness is not a problem with these pups.
Some Boxers are determined to do things their way, so training for control is recommended. Happy for any kind of attention, Boxers often look upon obedience routines as sometimes tedious – but it gives them time with their people. Make training interesting with play breaks, and you'll have a happy camper.
Boxers stay spiffy nearly all by themselves. As with other breeds, nails should be trimmed and ears and teeth cleaned. Otherwise a swipe of the brush or hound's glove keeps them shiny. Talk to your veterinarian about the type of food needed to keep a Boxer healthy – some can cause your Boxer to be gassy and not as welcome as the lapdog they like to be.
Parents should be OFA and CERF registered. Some lines suffer torsion, heart problems or bleeding disorders. Sadly, the number one health concern is cancer.
Actress Jessica Beal, NASCAR driver Greg biffle, and actor Hugh Jackman have all had Boxers.
© Copyright 2014 LifeLearn Inc. Used and/or modified with permission under license.
--------------------------------------------------
Cat Care Education
Select by health condition
See All Health Conditions
See all cat food
Cat food by brand
Cat food by age
New cat parent
Dog Care Education
Select by health condition
See All Health Conditions
See all dog food
Dog food by brand
Dog food by age
New dog parent
link
Search
Close
Prescription Diet™
Science Diet™
Pet Care Center
An intelligent, loyal pet, the boxer has a high need for companionship and exercise. They are not happy when regularly left home alone.
Boxers are intolerant of hot weather, and care must be taken to prevent them from getting overheated.
Weight Range:
Male: 65-80 lbs. Female: 50-65 lbs.
Height at Withers:
Male: 24 in.
Female: 22 in.
Brachycephalic (squashed face), droopy eyes, floppy ears (naturally)
Exercise Requirements: >40 minutes/day Energy Level: Very energetic Longevity Range: 8-10 yrs. Tendency to Drool: High Tendency to Snore: Moderate Tendency to Bark: Low Tendency to Dig: Low Social/Attention Needs: High
Bull-baiting, guardian
Length: Short Characteristics: Flat Colors: Fawn, brindle, with or without white flashing and black mask Overall Grooming Needs: Low
AKC Classification: Working UKC Classification: Guardian Dog Prevalence: Common
Boxers are stocky, muscular and powerful.
Males grow to about 25 inches and weigh from about 65 to 80 pounds (30 to 36 kilograms); females grow from about 21 to 25 inches and weigh from about 50 to 65 pounds (22 to 30 kilograms).
The boxer's coat is short and sheds moderately. Some boxers are a rich, fawn color and others are brindle. Their face or mask is usually black, but many have white face markings and white on the chest and paws.
Boxers are intelligent, high-energy, playful dogs that like to stay busy. Their temperament reflects their breeding. They prefer to be in the company of their owners and are loyal pets that will fiercely guard their family and home against strangers.
They get along well with other animals if raised with them. However, boxers also have a reputation for attacking neighborhood dogs and cats if left to their own devices, so they should never be allowed to wander.
Few boxers bark excessively. If a boxer barks, chances are there is a good reason. Many boxers are vocal, however, and make a growling noise that's really just the dog's way of talking.
The boxer has a high need for companionship and exercise. If these needs are not met, boxers can be destructive if left alone in the house. Boxers are ideal for people who want a canine companion with them most of the time or for larger busy families with homes that are often occupied by someone. They can do well on a country estate or in a city apartment as long as they have the opportunity to romp and expel energy. If you live in an urban area, regular walks are necessary.
Boxers are intolerant of hot weather, and care must be taken to prevent them from getting overheated. They also need protection from the cold since they are short-coated. Their coats, however, are very easy to care for and will be shiny and bright as long as they have a good diet, are bathed occasionally, and are given regular rub-downs with a grooming mitt or brushings with a rubber curry.
Some boxers drool excessively, and some snort and snore. Like other larger dogs, boxers are not particularly long-lived. Their life expectancy ranges from about seven to 10 years.
Boxers are descendants of extinct bullenbaiser breeds crossed with mastiff, bulldog and possibly Great Dane and even a terrier. They were developed in Germany in the 19th century, initially as bull baiting dogs and later as butcher's helpers, controlling cattle in slaughterhouses. Some breed historians say boxers are named from the German word boxl, their slaughterhouse designation. Other fanciers contend the name boxer comes from the characteristic way that they use their forepaws to play, sparring much like a human boxer. Boxers were not imported to the United States until after World War I. After 1940 the breed rose to become among the most popular in America.
Boxers are considered working dogs. They were one of the first breeds employed as a police dog, and they have been used as seeing-eye dogs. But they are also bred to be companion and guard dogs, perhaps best known for being loyal family pets that are especially fond of children.
FacebookInstagram
© 2018 Hill's Pet Nutrition, Inc. ®/™ Trademarks owned by Hill's Pet Nutrition, Inc. As used herein, ® denotes registered trademark status in the U.S. only; registration status in other geographies may be different. Your use of this site is subject to the terms of our Legal Statement. Cookie Consent Tool
--------------------------------------------------
