Exploring the Wonderful World of Dogs
Griffon Brabancon and Griffon Bruxellois
The Toy breed popularly called 'the Griffon' comes in three varieties, the rough coated Griffon Bruxellois, his smooth coated counterpart the Petit Brabancon and the Griffon Belge which come in colours other than red. But because all three are combined here in Australia as Griffon Bruxellois, they are considered here together. The rough coated Griffon Bruxellois historically had its origin in Belgium but looks remarkably similar to the Affenpinscher which had its origin in Germany. So a detailed comparison of these breeds is presented below.
Amolfini Portrait 1434 AD
In 1434 AD, the famous Amolfini Portrait (left) featured a small rough haired terrier painted in the Belgium town of Bruges. So a small type of terrier similar to the Griffon Bruxellois we know today, has existed in Belgium for centuries.
But it would be 1880 before somewhat recognisable Griffon Bruxellois made their first recorded appearance. These were a group of 5 small long-haired terriers (under 3 kilograms) which were exhibited at the first all-breeds show held in Brussels to mark the 50th Anniversary of Belgium independence. Two of these were the sire and dam of 'Fox' owned by a coachman named Notermans. 'Fox' became an acknowledged founder of the breed with many pedigrees recording they still go back to him today.
Griffon Bruxellois and Petit Brabancon
In 1882, the Griffon Bruxellois appeared in the first volume of the Belgium Stud Book as 'small hard coat terriers'. In 1884 and 1885 the name 'Affenpinscher' was added because they had a 'monkey head' similar to the German breed. But by 1886, the 'Affenpinscher' name was dropped, the name 'Griffon Bruxellois - little red-haired Griffon' was created. In 1888 when a Club was formed, the draft Breed Standard was approved with red being the only allowable colour. The following year, the short haired Petit Brabancon was also recognised. By 1905, 'Griffons of all colours' were included under the name of 'Griffon Belge'. But the 'all colours' only included black, black and tan and black and rust, with white being a disqualification[3].
Griffon Bruxellois c 1907
During these early days, the Belgium Queen Marie Henriette was a great supporter of all the Belgium breeds and was undoubtedly responsible for popularising this attractive small hard coated terrier with the monkey face. By this time trade between Belgium and England had already been commonplace for at least a century. So the fame of these little ratting dogs had already spread to the UK where they were instrumental in establishing the Norwich and Norfolk Terriers. In England, progeny of 'Fox' were entered in the 1896 English Stud Book but appeared in the 'Foreign Dog' section until 1899 when they appeared under the separate heading of 'Griffons Bruxellois'.[4]
Griffons Australia 1978
In Australia one Griffon Bruxellois and one Petit Brabancon was introduced in 1910 where they were listed separately in Australia's first Stud Book 'Tyzack's Annual'[1]. But it appears that Griffons were not imported into Australia in any numbers until 1933. Significantly, Mrs Elizabeth Collins exhibited her first Griffon, 'Mr Wylde of Moerangi' in 1937 and became very prominent in the Toy Group in Victoria with a trophy awarded in her honour for 'Top Toy' for many years[6].
Griffon Bruxellois Agility dog!
In the 1950's and 1960's Peggy Crawford imported Griffons into NSW, Mr Phil Cunningham to SA, and who could forget that delightful character, Madge Sheehan who imported them into Victoria[2]. Additionally with Australia's easy access to New Zealand where Mollie Grocott brought in a significant number of top winning Griffons from UK, her Moerangi prefix became very well known by the number of quality imports she sent here to Australia. So Griffons of both coats and all colours have always been in excellent hands here as showdogs, pets or participating in action sports like Agility.
Griffon Brabancon
While smooth and rough coat Griffons can occur in the same litter, both compete in the same classes in Australia under the name Griffon Bruxellois. But it is more technically correct to call rough coats Griffon Bruxellois, smooth coats Petit Brabancon and those with colours other than red, Griffon Belge.
Griffon Brabancon
The Griffon is a cobby square little dog with the disposition of a terrier weighing from 3.2-5kgs (7-11 lbs). He has a fairly large rounded head in comparison to the body but the skull should never be domed. He has a definite stop and a relatively short wide muzzle with a prominent turned up chin. This means the mouth is slightly undershot. The eyes are round and the ears should be semi-erect.
He has a short body with a rather wide and deep chest, a level topline and a high set tail. His straight forelegs with medium bone and well muscled hindquarters and short hocks enable him to move freely with good drive from the rear.
Griffon Belge (Black & Tan)
Griffons most commonly come clear red with a darker shade on the mask and ears. The Breed Standard is quite specific in that each hair should be an even red from tip to root. But in some countries Griffons that come in black or black and rich tan without white markings are called Griffon Belge.
Because both the Affenpinscher and Griffon should have monkey like expressions, they may look very similar in body proportions and general balance. But the Affenpinscher differs from the Griffon Bruxellois in the following ways:
Affenpinscher
[1] 'Tyzack's Annual' Compiled by T.W.Tyzack and C.S. Turner published by the Victorian Poultry and Kennel Club 1912, printed by Bellmaine Bros., Printers 66 - 70 Flinders Lane Melbourne Australia, Page 25
[2] 'The History of Purebred Dogs in Australia' published by OzDog Newspaper 1997, Griffon Bruxellois by Joy Seymour Page 173
[3] Jean-Marie Vanbutsele, 'History of the Griffon Bruxellois, Griffon Belge & Petit Brabancon', translated by Valerie Brideau & Elise Bernatchez, published by Belgium dogs Publications 20012 ISBN 978-0-9879857-0-5 'The Origin of the Small Griffon' Pages 13-21.
[4] Marjorie Cousens, 'Griffons Bruxellois' published by W & G Foyle Ltd, London UK 1960 Chapter One 'Origin and History' Page 20
[5] Jerome Cushman, 'Affenpinscher' published by 'Kennel Club Books' LLC USA 2006, ISBN 1-59378-335-3, History of the Affenpinscher Page 11
[6] Griffon Bruxellois Club of Victoria 40th Anniversary Year 1975 - 2015 Published by Eureka Publishing Pages 15 - 16
--------------------------------------------------
Griffons Bruxellois – by Marjorie Cousens
The official Standard, as amended in 1959 is given in italics.
There are two types – the Griffon Bruxellois which is rough, and the Petit Brabançon which is smooth. The Griffon is a small dog with a Terrier-like temperament.
Barring coat, there is no difference in any other way between the two varieties.
Well balanced, cobby body, intelligent expression, lively and alert.
This description is somewhat meagre – it really gives no idea whatever of the appearance of the dog, and it might apply to any breed, large or small. I quote from an earlier standard: “….. a lady’s little dog, intelligent, spritely, robust, compact appearance, reminding one of a cob, and captivating the attention by a quasi-human expression.” The words “quasi-human” expression could well have been left in the modern standard, and it was the greatest pity that the words “reminding one of a cob” were deleted, as they are so descriptive of the dog. Stout square little cobs are what Griffons should be, not rangy little race-horses. I am happy to say that the words “Terrier-like temperament” have at last been included, as the Griffon is full of terrier attributes.
Head should be large and rounded, but in no way domed, and should be wide between the ears. Hair on the skull in the rough variety, should be rather coarse. Nose always black, as short as possible, with large open nostrils, high set and sloping back to the skull. Wide muzzle with good turn-up ; chin prominent and slightly undershot without showing teeth, and (in the rough variety) furnished with a beard.
The term rounded is a difficult one to explain. Viewed from the front, the top of the head should be only slightly rounded – that is not flat as in the Pekingese, nor domed as in the King Charles Spaniel. On the other hand the forehead should be rounded – the French term “bombe” describes it well. all the head hair should be coarse, with the exception of that on the ears, which should be smooth and velvety. A silky topknot, which is generally light in colour, is a fault, though the texture of this can be improved by a continual plucking from an early age.
Noses are generally black – the breed does not suffer much from poor pigmentation; occasionally the state of health of the dog (or a bitch’s season) may cause the nose to go off –colour in the centre. Even the weather may be a cause – the real reason is not known, but a course of iron will often put the matter right.
Large round black or nearly black with black eye rims.
There is a modern tendency to lose the large eyes, and eye rims are not always black especially in dogs of the clear fiery red colour which is so much admired. Dogs of this colour also tend to have eyes to match, also like toenails. In the ordinary way however, neither the colour of eyes or eye rims are usual breed faults. The term black maybe misleading as regards eye colour. No dog has really jet black eyes and “very dark brown” would be nearer the mark as ideal.
By this is meant of course, ears standing a little above the level of the top of the skull with flaps falling neatly forward to cover the erect portions. In other words fox terrier ears are the ideal – but in modern practice it is acceptable if the fall of the flap comes in line with the skull, as long as the ears are small. If the ear is large however, it will look far worse if it hangs level with the skull than if carried high and neatly.
This large low set ear seems to me the worst possible variety as it totally alters the expression giving a depressed “hang dog look”, where as if carried high even if large the dog still has the typical gay look.
In her book published in 1926 the late Mrs Parker-Rhodes gave three very good sketches of ears – the ideal, the next best and the bad. The one she called the next best was of small ears carried high but with the flap falling sideways. This type of ear is still to be seen and still gets by – but I feel of over thirty years have elapsed since the publication of Mrs Parker-Rhodes book, it is time her “next best” should be forgotten and that only the ideal and the modern next best should be admissible.
Slightly undershot, and teeth regular.
The undershot mouth has already been mentioned. As to the regularity of the teeth, this is an ideal which is seldom reached in Toy dogs of any variety, and judges, rightly or wrongly, do not pay much attention to this point in Griffons. They generally just look to see in the jaw is correctly undershot. The top teeth are in fact generally regular enough – it is only the lower teeth that sometimes become crowded, and so irregular. Care, during teething, to remove baby-teeth as the new ones appear, will help this.
‘On the thick side’ could have been added here with advantage, and ‘definitely’ rather than ‘slightly’ arched. We do not want long reachy necks as in the Fox Terrier, nor short ones like a Bulldog. The stress should be on the word medium. The neck should spring from well laid back shoulders, and slope forward. If the shoulders are upright, the neck will also be so, which spoils the general outline.
Chest rather wide and deep ; legs straight, of medium length with good bone.
The wide deep chest is a special point in the Griffon. We do not want ‘two legs out of one hole’ but dead straight legs, set some distance apart, with the brisket well let down. Again there must be no exaggeration. The chest should only be rather wide, as too wide a chest will spoil front action. The elbows, not mentioned in the standard, should be tucked in, level with the body, viewed from the front. The dog should not be down on it pasterns, and the feet should be turned neither in nor out.
Short back, well sprung ribs and shoulder well laid back. The back should be level from point of shoulder to tail ; it should not be roached, nor should it dip to the shoulder.
This is self explanatory, but could go further. There are Griffons, whose backs are neither roached nor dipped to the shoulder, but are still wrong because they dip from shoulder to tail. The ribs should be well extended towards the tail, leaving a short strong loin.
Strong and muscular, thighs of medium length, hocks well bent.
The hind legs from the hock should be straight viewed from behind, though the standard does not say so.
Small cat-like feet with black toenails.
Roughly two-thirds docked, set on high.
New Standard:  Either docked or natural.
If docked, docked short, high set, emerging at right angles from the level topline.
If natural, high set, emerging at right angles from the level topline. Of moderate length, curved gently over the back when moving.
As the length of tails varies very much at birth ‘two-thirds’ is not really a safe guide when docking. A tail of about 1 ½ inches long on a grown dog of medium size is ideal, but it is better to dock too short than too long, as a tail spoils the outline and nothing can be done about it – whereas if the tail is too short it can be improved by leaving a little more hair on the end of it. The all important point is that the tail should be set on high and carried correctly, though, providing the set-on is correct, the angle at which it is carried does not matter so much, so long, of course, as it is not too gay, nor down. Taking the face of a clock as a standard measurement (with the back as a line between the nine and the centre, and the minute hand as the tail) – from 12 o’clock to ten past the hour is the ideal – three minutes to twelve is admissible, but five to, and 12.15 are not really good, and anything over, either way, definitely bad!
Roughs – harsh and wiry, free from curl. Smooth – short and smooth.
The texture of the coat varies very much, it is seldom as wiry as in a Fox Terrier, but it should be as harsh as possible. Curls are not allowed but an extra wiry coat with a dense undercoat will sometimes tend to wave (or rather, to have tight ripples down the back) and this is now admissible though the old standard said ‘free from curl or wave’. In practice, a coat which is quite straight as it comes through, may tend to wave as it gets older, so the dog should only be shown when the coat is the right length. Though the standard does not mention it, there should be a thick undercoat – a thing which is often missing, more particularly in blacks.
The best coats often come from fairly strong admixture of smooth and rough blood, and a strain which throw poor soft coats can often be improved by a smooth cross. There is a danger here, however of producing a semi-smooth, or ‘non-strip’ coat, which is an extra thick smooth, with a good deal of longish hair on throat and legs, and a small straggly beard. Coats of this variety are impossible to deal with, and the dogs cannot be shown. The coat of a smooth should be very smooth indeed, lying very close and flat. It should not be silky.
Clear red, black or black and rich tan.
The term ‘clear red’ is really not sufficiently explicit. There is a great variation in reds, from deep mahogany, through the fiery red I have mentioned, to the clear reddish wheaten which at one time was most admired of all. Fawn without a tinge of red is frowned upon, also brindle – otherwise, the actual shade of red does not matter much. In blacks however, rather unfairly I always think colour is all important, and a rusty black or a black with a preponderance of white hairs is penalised. Some blacks, though they have a good black top coat, have silvery or bluish undercoats with which sometimes goes a soft silvery top knot. In such a case it is as will only to show the dog when the top coats is well through. In black and tans, the tan should be (but often is not!) a rich tan, appearing in the beard, on the legs, chest and breeching, and stomach. White patches are a fault but practically never appear now, except occasionally in blacks in which they take the shape of a white of grey beard.
Blue and chocolate puppies sometimes make their appearance, but ineligible for the show ring and should not be bred from. Though quite attractive, they are happily rare.
The standard does not mention that the reds may have black beards, and that the ears are generally darker than the body coat.
From 2.2 - 5.0 kg (5 – 11lb) Most desirable 2.7 – 4.5kg (6 – 10 lb)
Many feel that this of far too wide variation, and, as size is very difficult to gauge by weight, there have been sereval outcries during recent years for a height standard.


President: Mrs Colleen De Haan [email protected]
Secretary -Mrs Robin Simpson [email protected]
0409 255 369
Puppy enquiries - Beth Canavan [email protected]
0490085215

Copyright (c) 2025.   Powered by Dogz Online
--------------------------------------------------
Would you like to look into as correctly: Griffon bruxellois or Griffon belge and what is Brabancon?
Know all about griffons >>>
Griffon: Room decorative dog.
Griffon Classification FCI: Group 9. Room decorative dogs, Section 3. Small Belgian Dogs (without working trial).
Griffon, and their three GRIFFON BRUXELLOIS (Brussels Griffon), GRIFFON BELGE and PETIT BRABANCON are Belgian geographical names.
Homeland griffons is Belgium, but at the moment Griffon widespread and loved in many countries in Europe and America. In our country, breed only gaining in popularity. We can link this with a small number of representatives of this breed, and less information about the breed.
How does Griffon looks like.
Griffons - a small dog with a motor. Fun, energetic and strong. With bulging eyes, cunning and a snub nose. Wire-haired (GRIFFON BRUXELLOIS and GRIFFON BELGE) with a beard. That beard makes them look like fun houses. Smooth Griffons- PETIT BRABANCON like a boxer breed in miniature. Similarities added cropped ears. Although recently a rarity in connection with the ban on docking ears and tails in some countries.
Weight of dogs of these breeds ranged from 3.5 to 6 kg.
What is the difference Griffons from each other?
BRUSSELS GRIFFON (Griffon Bruxellois) - a red-haired Griffon.GRIFFON BELGE - black or black and tan wire-haired Griffon.PETIT BRABANCON (small BRABANCON) is entitled to be red, and black, and black and tan, and red with black and brown - belge color. - BRABANCON it’s a smooth griffon.But what about the nature of the Griffon?Nice character for lapdog - this is important!
All types of griffons have a well-balanced psyche. They are not shy and nonaggressive. Bet! After all, the breed comes from Europe and much of the dogs brought from the United States. It is no secret that there are stringent laws in the case of animals (their aggressiveness) in the U.S. and Europe. Dogs should not throw at passers and other dogs, as well as to disturb the neighbors barking. Griffon satisfies all these requirements. If you have other animals - Griffon quickly infused into the company.
Any of the griffons suitable for any family. Griffon real family dog. For older people, these dogs nice companion for walking: griffons do not run away after the cat, not barking at passers, moving next to the host at a given pace. For adults - is quite burdensome dog with a pleasant, intelligent character. With great pleasure, these babies will sleep on your lap, but if you busy, griffons will play with toys or sleeps in their bed place or in a chair.
Griffon fit for fans of dog sports. Griffons are very smart and intelligent. This makes them good mates in the competitions at the rate of obedience.
But most of all, this breed is suitable for children. Always surprising that for young children the parents want to buy a small dog, such as toy and definitely a mini. But the toy and kids like him - this is not a toy for a child, but rather glamorous toys for adults. For the kid needs a strong fun dog, which can be embraced, but to raise the floor and cannot drop, which you can run together. Griffon themselves for many years remain small children, so your child does not get bored. Merry fuss and catch - it securely! And if suddenly your kids something died down, the more likely they are tired of games and sleep in the arms - a child and a dog.
From the foregoing it appears that Griffon - the ideal dog. Do not believe me? Come get acquainted! Without a griffon puppy you will not get away! And much to choose smooth or rough coated Griffon, red or black - it's up to you!
GRIFFON BRUXELLOIS
Red griffon with small beard
GRIFFON BELGE
Black griffon with small beard
PETIT BRABANCON
Smooth-haired griffon
--------------------------------------------------
Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
There are three adorable types of Griffon and all of them make charming and entertaining companions and family pets. The Petit Brabançon is the smooth coated version of the breed with the other two being the Griffon Bruxellois and the Griffon Belge, both of which have harsher, wiry coats. They are in fact identical and it's their coats and their texture which sets the three Griffons apart.
The Griffon Bruxellois boasts a long life span when correctly cared for which involves feeding these little dogs a good quality diet that suits the different stages of their lives. They can live for anything from 9 to 15+ years and remain very puppy-like throughout which is another of their endearing traits.
They stand at anything from 18 to 20 cm at the withers and can weigh in at around 3.6 to 4.5 kg when fit and healthy. They are prone to suffer from a few hereditary and congenital health disorders which includes the following:
When it comes to temperament, all Griffons are fun-loving characters by nature enjoying nothing more than to keep their owners and families entertained. They can be real clowns when the mood takes them. They form extremely strong ties with their owners and often develop separation anxiety when left to their own devices for any length of time which in short, means they are better suited to people who work from home or in households where one person typically stays at home when everyone else is out.
They are ultra intelligent but sensitive too and don't like being treated harshly or told off too severely. In short, owners need to be firm yet gentle when handling and training a Griffon Bruxellois being careful not to let them get away with too much which could result in a dog developing a condition known as small dog syndrome"" making them harder to live with and manage.
They are low maintenance when it comes to keeping their coats looking good thanks to the fact they are close-lying, harsh and short. They shed steadily throughout the year, but more so in the spring and autumn much like other breeds. They may be small in stature, but they boast a tremendous amount of energy which means they need to be given at least 60 minutes exercise a day and they also need to be given a ton of mental stimulation to prevent boredom from setting in. They are a good choice for first time owners, but they are better suited to families where the children are older rather than toddlers.
The Griffon Belge is also a real character and a small, energetic dog that likes to keep everyone entertained. They too have very human/monkey-like faces which adds to their endearing appearance. Providing they are well cared for and fed a good quality diet to suit their ages, the Griffon Belge can live for anything from 12 to 15 years.
They have stand at anything from 18 to 20 cm at the withers and can weigh in at around 2.5 to 5.5 kg. They too are prone to certain health concerns which includes the following:
The Griffon Belge is an intelligent little dog that has a real sensitive side to their natures as such, they need to be handled and trained with a gentle, but firm hand. They do not answer well to any sort of harsh correction, but respond very well to positive reinforcement being careful not to overdo the treats which could result in a dog putting on too much weight.
They form strong bonds with their owners and never like to be left on their own which often sees these little dogs suffering from separation anxiety. The result is that dogs develop some destructive and unwanted behaviours which can be hard to correct. They are a good choice for first time owners and are renowned for being wonderful companions for elderly people. They are better suited to families with older children rather than toddlers who may be a little too boisterous for them to cope with**.**
They are low to moderate on the grooming front thanks to their harsh, rough, wiry coats with dogs coming in a variety of colours which includes black and tan, reddish/brown and solid black. They are active, energetic little dogs that need to be given a minimum of 40 to 60 minutes daily exercise to be truly well balanced happy dogs. They also need to be given a lot of mental stimulation or boredom might set in which could result in a dog being destructive as they find ways to keep themselves entertained.
The Petit Brabançon is the smooth coated version of the Griffon and they boast a life span of anything from 9 to 15 years when correctly cared for and fed a good quality diet to suit the different stages of their lives. They stand at 18 to 20 cm at the withers and can weigh in at around 2.5 to 5.5 kg. They too have very monkey-like almost ""human"" faces with compact, strong and powerful bodies. What sets them apart from the other two Griffons, as previously mentioned is the texture of their coat which is close-lying and smooth rather than wiry and harsh.
They are a great choice for first time dog owners although they are better suited to families with older children rather than toddlers. Intelligent, protective and loyal, the Petit Brabançon thrives on human company and never likes to be left on their own for too long. Like their wire-haired counterparts, they can quickly develop separation anxiety when they are on their own which results in dogs becoming destructive around the home.
They are generally healthy little dogs although they are known to suffer from certain health concerns which includes the following:
They too form strong ties with the people they love which is typically the person who takes the most care of them and can be a little shy when they are around strangers, but rarely would one of these little dogs show any sort of aggressive behaviour towards people they don't know preferring to keep their distance and bark.
When it comes to grooming, they are low maintenance thanks to their close-lying smooth coats. They do shed steadily all year round only more so in the spring and autumn. They are energetic little dogs needing a minimum of 30 minutes or more exercise every day to keep them fit, healthy and happy. Because they are so intelligent, they also need lots of mental stimulation to keep them occupied and to prevent boredom from setting in which can makes these little dogs wilful and therefore harder to manage.
""
--------------------------------------------------
The Brussels Griffon dog is originated in Belgium and is classified as the small toy group breed. The name of the dog is kept after its origin city, Brussels in Belgium. This dog has been very popular nowadays as it has been into various movies and its popularity began in 19thcentury. In addition to the Brussels Griffon, there are two other variants: the Belgian Griffon and the Petit Griffon/Brabançon.
The Brussels Griffon – Facts, Information and Characteristics :
Appearance :
The Brussels Griffon dog is a small-sized dog with short back. The head is large and round shaped while nose is short and black in color. The legs are not very short but medium in length and ears are half-erected. The coat is of rough and smooth, Smooth coat is straight, smooth and glossy (no wiry hair) whereas the rough coat is dense, double and wiry without any silky hair.
The Brussels Griffon seen with wiry coat while as the Belgian Griffon seen with the long wiry coat but the length of the coat is small compared to the Brussels Griffon. The Petit Brabancon has a smooth and short coat.
The three dogs come under one breed which varies in coat types and colors. Generally this dog can be seen in various colors like Red, Black, Blue, Brown, Black and Tan, Belge (reddish brown hairs with black).
The height of the male and female dog is about 7-7.8 inches (18-20 cm) while both weigh around 5.5 lb (2.5 kg) to 12 lb (5.5 kg).
Behavior :
The Brussels Griffon is said to be alert, sensitive and watchful. It may be difficult to handle without proper training as they are strong at heart. Once they adapt to the home environment it becomes friendly with everyone in the family and entertains all the time with its activeness and funny attitude.
Health Issues :
Generally, Brussels Griffons are healthy but few times it gets affected by the eye and respiratory problems. Some other disorders like Hip Dysplasia, Patella Luxation and skin allergies might also affect the dog.
Syringomyelia (SM) and Chiari-like malformations (CM) are serious hereditary problems seen in few Brussels Griffons. They are sensitive to over sun-light and over heat might cause the respiratory problems for the dog.
Diet :
Maintain proper food schedule for the dog and do not over feed it. A high quality and mostly dry food is recommended for the Griffon and make it drink clean water. Consult and take the advice of your vet in case of any emergency or unusual symptoms.
Habitat :
Griffons do well in the apartments and they seem to be active even without yard. But a small yard is also suggestible as it gives the enough space for the dog to run and exercise.
Lifestyle :
The Griffon is very active and also sensitive dog and prefers to walk along with the owner. Whenever the dog is with you make sure it doesn’t get away from your eyesight. It love to exercise regularly and don’t make it tired of exercise. They are intelligent and love to play with the family members all the time.
Lifecycle :
Generally, Brussels Griffon can give birth to 1 to 3 puppies on average due to their small litter size. The small puppies weigh very less and so proper care and attention is required after the delivery.
Images, Pics, Photos and Pictures of Brussels Griffon :

Predators :
Due to their small size and little appearance it might attract other big animals. So, supervision is required on the dog whenever necessary.
Breeding :
Breeding by professional is recommended for the Brussels griffons for healthy puppies. Sometimes for few pregnant dogs caesarean section might be necessary.
Life Span :
The average life-span of the Brussels Griffon is 12 to 15 years. Some might live longer than expected if raised by proper care and attention.
Grooming :
The smooth coats should be bathed occasionally and brushed weekly; the brushing should be done nicely with natural bristle brush. For the rough coats, weekly brush and hand-strip or clipping should be done twice in a year which means plucking the loose or dead hair with the hands.
Shedding :
The Brussels Griffon is not a heavy shedder and shed little hair, weekly brushing is required in order to keep it clean.
Suggestible names for the Brussels Griffon :
--------------------------------------------------
