A breed standard is the guideline which describes the ideal characteristics, temperament and appearance including the correct colour of a breed and ensures that the breed is fit for function. Absolute soundness is essential. Breeders and judges should at all times be careful to avoid obvious conditions or exaggerations which would be detrimental in any way to the health, welfare or soundness of this breed.
From time to time certain conditions or exaggerations may be considered to have the potential to affect dogs in some breeds adversely, and judges and breeders are requested to refer to the Breed Watch information related to this breed for details of any such current issues. If a feature or quality is desirable it should only be present in the right measure. However, if a dog possesses a feature, characteristic or colour described as unacceptable, it must not be rewarded in the show ring.


Rugged appearance; supple, muscular and well-proportioned.

Very intelligent, gay and lively.

Fearless, with no trace of timidity or aggressiveness.

Skull slightly rounded and slightly longer from occiput to stop than it is wide when measured through points of cheekbones. Head is composed of two equal rectangles, occiput to stop and stop to end of nose, when viewed in profile from above. Muzzle square and very strong; any tendency to snipiness highly undesirable. Stop clearly defined. Nose large and square, always black.

Horizontally placed, well open and rather large, not oblique. Intelligent and gentle in expression. Dark brown, eye rims always black.

Set on high and covered with long hair. Should not lie too flat against side of head. Fairly short, length of ear being equal to or slightly less than half length of head. When dog alert ears should be lifted slightly and swing very slightly forward.

Teeth very strong and white with a perfect, regular and complete scissor bite, i.e. upper teeth closely overlapping lower teeth and set square to the jaws. Lips always black.

Of good length; strong and muscular; arched, giving proud carriage of head and flowing smoothly into well-placed shoulders.

Shoulders well angulated and well laid back, forelegs well muscled, strongly boned.

Back firm and level, chest broad, medium spring of rib, well let down, very slight slope at croup, determining set of tail. Very slightly longer in body than height at shoulder.

Well angulated, with hocks set not too low and turning neither in nor out, but leg below hock not quite vertical. Hindlegs, particularly thighs, well muscled. Double dewclaws set low on hindlegs of utmost importance.


Long, well covered with hair with upward hook at tip. Carried low but always held centrally. Bone of tail reaching at least point of hock.

Effortless, and when dog extends himself covering a great deal of ground. Extremely supple, enabling dog to turn quickly. Strong, firm, very smooth with plenty of drive.

Long, not less than 7 cms (2¾ ins) on body. Slightly wavy and very dry. A fine dense undercoat required all over body. Head carries hair forming a moustache, beard and eyebrows, lightly veiling eyes.

All black, or with white hairs scattered through black coat. Fawn in all its shades, darker shades preferred. Fawns may have dark shadings on ears, muzzle, back and tail, but these shadings must blend gradually into rest of coat since any demarcation line denotes a bi-colour which is not permissible. May also be slate grey.

Height: dogs: 61-69 cms (24-27 ins) at withers; bitches: 58-65 cms (23-25½ ins) at withers. Slight undersize before 18 months, or slight oversize in maturity permissible.

Any departure from the foregoing points should be considered a fault and the seriousness with which the fault should be regarded should be in exact proportion to its degree and its effect upon the health and welfare of the dog and on the dog’s ability to perform its traditional work.

Male animals should have two apparently normal testicles fully descended into the scrotum.

Size – The Kennel Club breed standard is a guide and description of the ideal for the breed; the size as described does not imply that a dog will match the measurements given (height or weight). A dog might be larger or smaller than the size measurements stated in the breed standard.
--------------------------------------------------
Thank you for subscribing to Petful Recall Alerts. You’ll now receive important pet food recall updates directly in your inbox based on your subscription preferences. You can update those in the footer of the emails we send you.


If you’re looking for a large, intelligent dog devoted to their family members, look no further than the Briard.
Don’t leave your pet’s safety to chance
Sign up for Petful recall alerts today.
Don’t leave your pet’s safety to chance
Sign up for Petful recall alerts today.
The Briard is a strong and versatile herding dog known for its exceptional hearing and natural watchdog instincts. This breed has unique physical traits and a distinctive appearance, including:
The Briard’s striking appearance and strong instincts make it both a functional herding dog and a loyal companion.
The Briard has a rich history that dates back centuries, originating in France. This breed’s journey includes fascinating milestones:
The Briard’s historical significance and adaptability make it a remarkable breed with a legacy spanning centuries.
Briards are intelligent, eager to learn, and thrive in a structured environment. Their temperament and social behavior require proper training and care:
By understanding a Briard’s social needs and personality, you can create a loving and harmonious environment for this loyal and intelligent breed.
HIGH: This active dog breed needs regular exercise to expel energy. Take your adult Briard for long walks or jogs each day to prevent behavior problems. These dogs are active indoors and can do well in apartments if their exercise needs are met.
VERY HIGH: Briards have very high grooming needs due to their long, plush double coat. Proper grooming is essential to maintain their coat and overall health:
Proper grooming is a time commitment, but it ensures your Briard stays healthy, comfortable, and looking their best.
MEDIUM: The following conditions may affect a Briard:
Ask for medical records or tests on a puppy, the parents or an older dog. These can identify which eye problems may be present.
Congenital stationary night blindness can be tested for, and dogs with this result should not be used for future breeding.
Adopting a Briard is a significant commitment, given the breed’s high training and grooming needs. Here’s how to make an informed decision:
Adoption First:
Choosing a Breeder:
By carefully considering adoption and thoroughly vetting breeders, you can ensure a happy, healthy future with your Briard.
A Briard is a large French herding dog known for its intelligence, loyalty, and distinctive long, wavy coat.
Yes, Briard dogs shed minimally, but their long coat requires regular brushing to prevent matting and reduce shedding.
Briard dogs have a large, rectangular head, high-set hair-covered ears, and a long, plush double coat in shades of black, gray, or tawny.
The cost of a Briard puppy typically ranges from $1,500 to $3,000, depending on the breeder and lineage.
Kristine Lacoste has been researching dog and cat breeds for nearly a decade and has observed the animals up close at dog shows in both the United States and the United Kingdom. She is the author of the book One Unforgettable Journey, which was named as a finalist for a Maxwell Award from the Dog Writers Association of America, and was host of a weekly pet news segment on the National K-9 Academy Radio Show. In addition, she was the New Orleans coordinator for Dogs on Deployment, a nonprofit that helps military members and their pets, for 3 years. Kristine has researched and written about pet behaviors and care for many years. She holds a bachelor’s degree in psychology, another bachelor’s degree in English and a Master of Business Administration degree.



Every year, the American Kennel Club reveals the most popular dog breeds, but are they right for you? Here’s what to know.
The fillers and chemicals that manufacturers put into some pet foods are scary. Here are some things to keep in mind as you’re looking at the labels.
Time to visit your local farmers market! There are a lot of healthy, fresh produce options that you can offer your pup.
See the 2025 breakdown of The Farmer’s Dog cost by day, week & month with our pricing table. We also share our thoughts on this fresh dog food brand. Promo code included if you want to try it for yourself.
Whippets are fast dogs bred from Greyhounds, but they are also loyal companion pets with fun personalities.
Wild Coast Raw Pet Food alert Feb 14, 2025 due to potential bird flu contamination. Check affected products and learn how to keep your pets safe.
Don’t leave your pet’s food safety to chance
Sign up for Petful recall alerts today.
Don’t leave your pet’s food safety to chance
Sign up for Petful recall alerts today.
Get Free Recall Alerts
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Lenkadan, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 25, 2025 by Joe Burns
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Briard (Chien Berger de Brie) is a large, loveable, and shaggy sheepdog native to France. Named after the historic region of Brie where the famous cheese is produced, the Briard has been around since the 8th century and was developed to perform general farm tasks in addition to herding and watching over sheep.
Imbued with a protective instinct that has been retained to this day, the Briard also made it his business to guard and be a devoted companion to his human family when the day’s work was done. Without further ado, let’s take a closer look at this dutiful, courageous, and faithful dog.
Height:
22–27 inches
Weight:
55–100 pounds
Lifespan:
12 years
Colors:
Black, tawny, gray, black & gray, black & tawny, white, tawny & gray
Suitable for:
Active, loving caregivers committed to training and socialization
Temperament:
Loving, quick to learn, gentle, self-assured, courageous
Breed enthusiasts often describe the Briard as a “heart wrapped in fur”, a testament to this dog’s companionability, loyalty, gentle nature, and, of course, that show-stopping coat. Don’t take that to mean the Briard is a pushover—far from it.
This rugged pooch’s herding instincts and inclination to think for itself remain untouched, so there’s a healthy dose of independence and self-confidence to go with all that sweetness.

While not among the most popular dog breeds in the United States (the Briard sits at 151 out of 201 on the American Kennel Club’s popularity ranking), finding reputable Briard breeders shouldn’t be too difficult. However, there is an alternative—Briard adoption.
There are charities and organizations out there dedicated to rehoming Briards and Briard mixes, so this avenue is well worth checking out. You may not find a Briard puppy via this route (you never know), but adoption is a much less costly option and turns a dog in need’s whole life around.
If you do bring home a Briard puppy, get a head start on training and socializing them as this will stand you in good stead later on. Briards are famous for possessing a stubborn streak when it comes to training, so the earlier you instill good habits, the better.

Briards are well-balanced dogs that love their people unconditionally but are usually independent enough to not be too bothered by spending a healthy amount of time alone while you go to work or run daily errands.
The Briard’s self-assuredness and independence come from their past as herding dogs; on farms and pastures, these dogs were expected to be able to think for themselves and face a variety of situations with confidence. Nevertheless, it’s still important to build positive associations around alone time, as is the case for every type of dog.
In addition to being loving yet independent, the Briard is an intelligent and playful dog. Briards can also be a little wary of strangers due to their natural protectiveness, so it’s important to socialize them with people outside the family home and other dogs.
Yes, Briards are great family dogs thanks to their gentle nature and sense of fun. However, socialization and training are very important to keep their natural herding instincts in check. While Briards are typically gentle with children, they may perceive them as something to herd during play (herding dogs’ instincts are triggered by movement) and get a little bossy with them.
It’s wise to train your Briard to “leave it” or teach a focus command like “watch me” to redirect this kind of behavior should it happen. You can also require your Briard to display calm behavior before getting something exciting to teach them a sense of self-control. For example, before throwing a ball, ask your dog to sit.
Yes, though the Briard has an independent streak, these dogs often get along well with other dogs and cats in the household. Of course, this depends on whether or not they’ve been socialized around other animals.
When you bring your new dog home, work on forging positive associations around the new dog for your other pets and vice versa. Let them meet from a distance and under close supervision before you unleash them around one another. Like with kids, herding dogs may get into the habit of trying to herd their fluffy housemates, so keep an eye on that.

When it comes to picking a dog food formula, it’s best to go for the highest quality within your budget range. Complete and balanced commercially available formulas are ideal because they’re made to fulfill all of a dog’s nutritional needs. Making your own dog food is hard to get right nutritionally, so only do this under veterinary supervision.
Different dogs need different kinds of formulas depending on age, weight, and health, so check the packaging carefully. If your dog has a health condition, work with your vet to decide on the best kind of diet.
Be careful not to feed too many treats when training your Briard as this could lead to weight gain, and research which kinds of human foods are unsafe for canines (garlic, onions, and chocolate are but a few of the foods toxic to dogs) so you can make sure your dog stays away from them.
Briards are active dogs that must have a daily outlet for their energy. In addition to walking your Briard and engaging in interactive play, you can also give these work-happy dogs little jobs to do to keep them busy.
This may include giving your Briard something to carry around the house, teaching them to close doors, or training them to put things away. These things may require a bit of patience to teach, but Briards are smart and learn quickly.
On one hand, Briards are very trainable because they learn fast and have a strong work ethic. On the other hand, the famous stubborn streak they possess can make training a challenge if you lack consistency or training sessions become boring or too long-winded.
This breed needs plenty of positive reinforcement and short (around 10–15 minutes each), upbeat training sessions with motivators depending on what your dog likes most. Different dogs appreciate different motivators, so get to know what your Briard is most fond of, whether that be treats, toys, or abundant praise.
Even when they’re puppies and their shaggy coat isn’t very long yet, you’ll want to start brushing them early to get them used to it. Though not heavy shedders, Briards need to be thoroughly brushed daily or at least every few days to keep their coat free of tangles and mats.
As for bathing, unless your Briard often gets dirty, you’ll only need to do this every now and again. If you bathe your Briard on a regular basis, be mindful not to do it so often that you strip the coat’s natural oils as this does more harm than good. Some Briards get away with a bath every few months whereas others may need a weekly bath.
Other grooming tasks for your Briard include brushing their teeth every day and trimming the nails when needed to make sure they don’t become uncomfortable.
Every dog breed has certain genetic health conditions associated with it, and the Briard is no exception. That doesn’t mean your dog will definitely develop a health condition, but it does mean you have to be vigilant for signs that something isn’t right, just in case.
Gastric torsion (bloat) is an example of a condition that’s been linked mostly to large breeds, including the Briard. While in humans, bloat is often viewed as a common, harmless occurrence, in dogs, it’s very serious because the stomach twists to the point where its entry and exit points are blocked. It can be fatal if not treated immediately. Other conditions that may affect the Briard include:

We suggest getting to know a dog as much as possible before you bring them home, so you get an idea of their personality and whether or not you’ll be a good match for one another. Choosing a dog based only on gender is not a good determiner of personality and suitability because every dog is unique.
You might want to consider having your Briard neutered (male) or spayed (female) when they’re old enough to help reduce hormone-related behaviors like urine marking, roaming, and aggression toward other males (unneutered males) or irritability and frequent urination (unspayed females) during the heat cycle.
Spaying and neutering also prevent unwanted pregnancies and reduce the risk of health issues like testicular cancer and prostate cancer in males and uterine and ovarian cancer in females.
Dogs that look similar to today’s Briard can be seen in tapestries from the 8th century. These tapestries date back to the reign of Charlemagne (742–814).
The Briards aided the French army in both WWI and WWII in a variety of ways. Their jobs included delivering supplies to the front line and tracking down soldiers in need of medical attention. Sadly, many Briards lost their lives while on duty and these dogs aren’t as easy to come across these days as a result of that.
A notable Briard trait is the way these dogs move. The American Kennel Club describes their movements as if they are “gliding over the ground”, more like a cat than a dog. This may surprise some given how large and rugged Briards are.

Briards are big dogs with big hearts to match, but they’re not for everyone. First-time owners may find these loving and loyal but independent-minded, energetic dogs a bit of a challenge to train. However, if you’re committed to socializing and training your Briard well, you’re sure to reap plenty of rewards in parenting one of these lovely canines.
Featured Image Credit: Lenkadan, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Kit Copson is a freelance writer and lifelong animal lover with a strong interest in animal welfare. She has parented many furry beings over the years and is currently a proud cat mom of two—one very chilled (unless hungry) Siamese and a skittish but adorable Domestic Shorthair—and dog mom of one—an adopted Bichon Poodle cross. When not writing about or spending time with pets, Kit can be found drawing in her sketchpad, reading, or more often than not, drinking tea.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
Briards are handsome large dogs with their striking long flowing coats. They were originally bred as working dogs herding and guarding flocks of sheep in France where they were highly valued for their alert kind and loyal natures. They are known to be extremely courageous but rarely would a Briard show any sort of aggressive behaviour unless they feel threatened in any way.
They thrive in a home environment being especially patient and tolerant around children of all ages. However Briards must be trained with a gentle yet firm hand because these large dogs are not aware of their size or their strength. Their coats may be glorious but they are high maintenance on the grooming front and dogs need a minimum of 2-hour’s daily exercise to be truly happy. With this said the Briard is not the best choice for first time dog owners being better suited to people who are familiar with the needs of such a large and extrovert dog.
The origins of the Briard remain a bit of a mystery but there are many legends about the breed. With this said it is thought that they are one of the oldest French breeds that could well date back to Charlemagne with similar looking dogs being portrayed in tapestries. There are some people who believe very similar dogs were around in the Middle Ages when dogs that arrived in Europe from the Orient were crossed with local herding dogs. The goal it is said was to create a larger more fearless dog that was capable of guarding and herding flocks of sheep and a dog that boasted enough courage to take on wolves and other large predators without hesitation. The breed is thought to be a descendant of Aubry's dog and were given their name from the region of France known as Brie where they were developed.
It was the French who developed the Briard and in ancient times these dogs were highly prized for their intelligence courage yet kind natures which led to many legends being told about them. They not only worked as herding and guard dogs but the Briard also worked with the military. Napoleon took Briards with his armies on his many campaigns. Thomas Jefferson was so impressed with the breed he took several back to the States where they were to work with American farmers. Lafayette had some dogs sent to his estate and pretty soon they were to become highly prized not only in their native France but in America too.
The Briard was so highly thought of the breed was made the French army's official dog and during the wars they would carry supplies to soldiers on the front lines they tracked wounded soldiers and even worked as sentries. On the battlefield Briards appeared to know which wounded soldiers needed help and who were beyond help which can be put down to their superb hearing and superior intelligence. Sadly breed numbers were drastically depleted at the end of the war.
The breed first arrived on British shores in the late 1960’s when dogs were imported from Ireland to England and the first Briard to be exhibited in the UK was in 1967 with 2 dogs then qualifying for Crufts. The British Briard Club was established in 1973 and a year later the Kennel Club granted the breed full championship status. Today these magnificent large dogs are still highly prized in France but they have become sought after in other parts of the world including here in the UK thanks to their handsome looks and their kind loyal natures.
Height at the withers: Males 61 - 69 cm Females 58 - 65 cm
Average weight: Males 30 - 40 kg Females 25 - 35 kg
These large dogs have an unusual physical trait in that they have double dewclaws on their back legs as well as single ones on their front ones. The Briard stands out in the crowd thanks to their long flowing coats their charming moustaches beards and bushy eyebrows. With this said they are well-proportioned boasting a rugged yet athletic and supple appearance. Their head is ever so slightly rounded with a nice square strong looking muzzle and clearly defined stop. A Briard’s nose is always black regardless of the colour of their coat.
They boast large dark brown eyes with black rims that always have a very intelligent and gentle expression in them. Ears are covered in long hair and set high on a dog’s head which they carry slightly lifted when alert. The Briard has a very strong mouth with a perfect scissor bite where their upper teeth neatly overlap their lower ones all set on a nice square jaw and their lips are always black in colour.
They have moderately long and well-muscled necks that dogs carry arched adding to their proud appearance. Shoulders are well laid back and set at a nice angle with dogs boasting strong well-muscled front legs. Chests are broad with dogs having a strong level back and medium spring ribcage that drops well down. These dogs boast a slight slope at their croup where their tail is set.
When it comes to their coat the Briard has a long and slightly wavy coat with a very fine and dense undercoat that covers their entire body. They have a moustache beard and eyebrows that slightly veil their eyes. Accepted colours for Kennel Club registration are as follows:
Briards with fawn coloured coats can have darker markings on their muzzles ears backs and on their tails which is acceptable with the proviso that colours blend in nicely in with the rest of their coat colour.
It is worth noting that acceptable colours for Kennel Club registration can differ from the colours set out in the Breed Standard.
When a Briard moves they do so with an effortless gait taking long strides and covering a lot of ground when they do. They are also extremely adept at turning on a sixpence showing a tremendous amount of drive while remaining well balanced strong smooth and firm.
The Kennel Club frowns on any exaggerations or departures from the breed standard and would judge the faults on how much they affect a dog's overall health and wellbeing as well as their ability to perform.
Males should have both testicles fully descended into their scrotums and it is worth noting that a dog can be a little lighter or heavier as well as slightly taller or shorter than set out in the Kennel Club breed standard which is only given as a guideline.
The Briard is a highly intelligent dog and one that boasts having a tremendous amount of courage yet they never show any signs of aggressive behaviour but rather a gay energetic and lively nature which are just some of the reasons why they are so highly thought of not only in their native France but in other regions of the world too.
Because they are fun-loving energetic by nature they adapt tremendously well to family life. They literally don't have a nasty bone in their body and adore taking part in any sort of interactive game. However they do need to be kept busy and their education needs to start early for them to grow up to be well-rounded adult dogs. Briard puppies need to be well socialised from a young age which means introducing them to new situations people and animals too.
Briards are not the best choice for first time owners because they need to be correctly handled and trained right from the word go. They are happy when they know their place in the pack and who is alpha dog in a household. Their training always has to be consistent and fair with dogs needing to be handled with a firm yet gentle hand. They also need to be given a ton of daily exercise which has to include lots of mental stimulation for them to be truly happy obedient dogs.
Briards are not the best choice for first time dog owners because they need to be socialised handled and trained by people who are familiar with the needs of such large intelligent and often boisterous and stubborn dogs that can often show a more dominant side to their natures.
Briards were bred to guard and herd large flocks and as such they do have a high prey drive and like nothing better than to chase anything that moves or tries to run away. As such care must always be taken as to where and when a Briard can run off the lead more especially if there is livestock and wildlife close by. They also like to nip at the heels of whatever they are trying to move along which includes children.
Briards have the reputation of being real “extroverts” they have a mischievous playful and fun-loving side to their natures. With this said owners must be careful not to mix up playfulness with dominance which can happen if a Briard gets away with too much. The other thing to bear in mind is that Briards do not know their own strength and can be extremely boisterous when the mood takes them and are known to jump up at people which could easily knock a person over.
Briards being so large and exuberant need to have enough space to express themselves and are much better suited to households with large secure back gardens where a dog can safely let of steam whenever possible.
Although Briards form strong ties with their families they do not generally suffer from separation anxiety providing they are never left to their own devices for too long. With this said they are better suited to people who lead active outdoor lives and who like to have an intelligent energetic large canine companion at their side.
Briards can be very protective of their families and property which means they can take to barking incessantly if they feel things are not as they should be. With this said Briards don’t generally bark just for the sake of it and usually only voice an opinion when they feel it is necessary to do so.
Most Briards love swimming and will take to the water whenever they can more especially when the weather is hot. However if anyone who owns a dog that does not like water should never force them to go in because it would just end up scaring them. With this said care should always be taken when walking a Briard off the lead anywhere near more dangerous watercourses just in case a dog decides to leap in and then needs rescuing. It is also very important to dry off a dog’s coat when they get wet to prevent moisture from being trapped which could lead to an allergy flare-up.
Briards are natural watchdogs which is a trait that is deeply embedded in their psyche. As such they do not need to be taught to guard or protect. With this said rarely would a Briard show any sort of aggression towards anyone providing they don’t feel threatened. However as previously mentioned some Briards object to strangers approaching their owners and will make sure the people understand their displeasure at the situation.
It's essential for a Briard's training and education to start as early as possible or these lovely dogs might start to show a more dominant side to their characters. Puppies as previously mentioned need to be well socialised from a young age so they grow up to be receptive and obedient adult dogs. In the right hands with the correct amount of positive reinforcement training a Briard is a joy to be with but their education and training has to be consistent and owners need to show a lot of patience towards them.
These dogs need to be handled firmly yet gently to achieve the right sort of results. They do not respond well to harsh correction or training which could end up doing more harm than good. Briards tend to form a very strong bond with one member of the family but they are always loving towards everyone in a household. They are known to be wary and suspicious of people they don't know but would rarely show any sort of aggression towards them.
Like all puppies Briard puppies are extremely cute with their shaggy appearance and adorable looks. However a sweet puppy quickly grows up to be a large mature dog and as such once a puppy is settled into a new home they must be taught the rules and boundaries of what is acceptable behaviour and what is not. It also helps establish a “pecking order” and who is the alpha dog in a household. The first commands a puppy should be taught are as follows:
Briards are known to be a great choice as family pets because they are so protective by nature. However they can become over protective of children which is something parents need to watch out for and gently correct when necessary. As with any other large dog any interaction between a Briard and the kids has to be well supervised by an adult to make sure play time does not get too boisterous.
Briards are generally good around other dogs although they can show a more dominant side to their nature if they have not been correctly trained and handled when young. If these dogs are carefully and properly introduced to other pets and animals in a household they will usually accept and tolerate being around them.
The average life expectancy of a Briard is between 11 and 15 years when properly cared for and fed an appropriate good quality diet to suit their ages.
Briards are known to be one of the healthier pedigree dogs around and although the breed was known to suffer from hip dysplasia thanks to careful and selective breeding fewer cases are now reported. With this said if you are hoping to share a home with a Briard there are a few health concerns worth knowing about which includes the following:
It is worth noting that the Kennel Club’s breed average COI stands at 5.1%.
Briard puppies would have been given their initial vaccinations before being sold but it is up to their new owners to make sure they have their follow-up shots in a timely manner with the vaccination schedule for puppies being as follows:
There has been a lot of discussion about the need for dogs to have boosters. As such it's best to talk to a vet before making a final decision on whether a dog should continue to have annual vaccinations which are known as boosters.
A lot of vets these days recommend waiting until dogs are slightly older before spaying and neutering them which means they are more mature before undergoing the procedures. As such they advise neutering males and spaying females when they are between the ages of 6 to 9 months old and sometimes even when a dog is 12 months old.
Other vets recommend spaying and neutering dogs when they are 6 months old but never any earlier unless for medical reasons. With this said many breeds are different and it is always advisable to discuss things with a vet and then follow their advice on when a dog should be spayed or neutered.
Like other breeds some Briards gain weight after they have been spayed or neutered and it's important to keep an eye on a dog's waistline just in case they do. If a dog starts to put on weight it's important to adjust their daily calorie intake and to up the amount of exercise they are given. Older dogs too are more prone to gaining weight and again it's essential they be fed and exercised accordingly because obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years. The reason being that it puts a lot of extra strain on a dog's internal organs including the heart which could prove fatal.
Some Briards are prone to suffering from allergies and it's important for a dog to see a vet sooner rather than later if one flares up. Allergies can be notoriously hard to clear up and finding the triggers can be challenging. With this said a vet would be able to make a dog with an allergy more comfortable while they try to find out the triggers which could include the following:
All responsible Briard breeders would ensure that their stud dogs are tested for known hereditary and congenital health issues known to affect the breed by using the following schemes:
As of January 1st 2016 the Kennel Club no longer accepts the registration of puppies from litters born to parents known to carry the CSNB gene that have been bred to clear dogs whether they are DNA tested or hereditary clear. It is worth noting that each case can be dealt with by the Kennel Club on a case-by-case basis and permission can be granted prior to a proposed mating. It is also worth noting that if the Kennel Club does grant permission all puppies produced from such matings must be DNA tested and then registered as either CSNB Clear or Carriers.
It is mandatory for all Kennel Club Assured breeders to use the following tests on their dogs and the KC strongly recommends that all other breeders follow suit:
The Kennel Club also strongly recommends that all breeders use the following test on their dogs:
As with any other breed Briards need to be groomed on a regular basis to make sure their coats and skin are kept in top condition. They also need to be given regular daily exercise to ensure they remain fit and healthy. On top of this they need to be fed good quality food that meets all their nutritional needs throughout their lives.
It's best to pick a puppy up when people are going to be around for the first week or so which is the time needed for a puppy to settle in. Puppy-proofing the home and garden means putting away any tools and other implements that a boisterous puppy might injure themselves on. Electric wires and cables must be put out of their reach because puppies love chewing on things. Toxic plants should be removed from flowerbeds and the home too.
Puppies need to sleep a lot to grow and develop as they should which means setting up a quiet area that's not too out of the way means they can retreat to it when they want to nap and it's important not to disturb them when they are sleeping. It's also a good idea to keep "playtime" nice and calm inside the house and to have a more active "playtime" outside in the garden which means puppies quickly learn to be less boisterous when they are inside.
The documentation a breeder provides for a puppy must have all the details of their worming date and the product used as well as the information relating to their microchip. It is essential for puppies to be wormed again keeping to a schedule which is as follows:
There are certain items that new owners need to already have in the home prior to bringing a new puppy home. It's often a good idea to restrict how much space a puppy plays in more especially when you can't keep an eye on what they get up to bearing in mind that puppies are often quite boisterous which means investing in puppy gates or a large enough playpen that allows a puppy the room to express themselves while keeping them safe too. The items needed are therefore as follows:
All puppies are sensitive to noise including Briard puppies. It's important to keep the noise levels down when a new puppy arrives in the home. TVs and music should not be played too loud which could end up stressing a small puppy out which could end up making them withdrawn timid and shy.
As previously mentioned Briard puppies would have been given their first vaccinations by the breeders but they must have their follow up shots which is up to their new owners to organise. The vaccination schedule for puppies is as follows:
When it comes to boosters it's best to discuss these with a vet because there is a lot of debate about whether a dog really needs them after a certain time. However if a dog ever needed to go into kennels their vaccinations would need to be fully up to date.
Older Briards need lots of special care because as they reach their golden years they are more at risk of developing certain health concerns. Physically a dog's muzzle may start to go grey but there will be other noticeable changes too which includes the following:
Living with a Briard in their golden years means taking on a few more responsibilities but these are easily managed and should include looking at their diet the amount of exercise they are given how often their dog beds need changing and keeping an eye on the condition of their teeth.
Older Briards need to be fed a good quality diet that meets their needs at this stage of their lives all the while keeping a close eye on a dog's weight. A rough feeding guide for older dogs is as follows bearing in mind they should be fed highly digestible food that does not contain any additives:
Older Briards don't need to be given the same amount of daily exercise as a younger dog but they still need the right amount of physical activity to maintain muscle tone and to prevent a dog from putting on too much weight. All dogs need access to fresh clean water and this is especially true of older dogs when they reach their golden years because they are more at risk of developing kidney disorders.
Briards are high maintenance on the grooming front because their coats need to be brushed daily to avoid any knots or tangles from forming. Briard puppies must be taught that a grooming session is a pleasant experience and one that they look forward to. It’s also very important to check between a dog’s toes regularly to see if anything is trapped which could lead to an infection flaring up. Dew claws also need to be trimmed regularly to prevent them snagging on things. Their coats also need to be regularly trimmed which is best left up to a professional dog groomer. Because Briards boast coarse double coats they do tend to shed quite a bit and more especially during the Spring and then again in the Autumn which is when more frequent brushing would be necessary.
Briards are very intelligent and energetic dogs and as such they need to be given a heap of exercise and mental stimulation every day. This means a good walk in the morning and then a longer more interesting one in the afternoon. Ideally Briards need 2 hours exercise a day so they can expend all that pent-up energy.
If you get a Briard puppy from a breeder they would give you a feeding schedule and it's important to stick to the same routine feeding the same puppy food to avoid any tummy upsets. You can change a puppy's diet but this needs to be done very gradually always making sure they don't develop any digestive upsets and if they do it's best to put them back on their original diet and to discuss things with the vet before attempting to change it again.
Older dogs are not known to be fussy or finicky eaters but this does not mean you can feed them a lower quality diet. It's best to feed a mature Briard twice a day once in the morning and then again in the evening making sure it's good quality food that meets all their nutritional requirements. It's also important that dogs be given the right amount of exercise so they burn off any excess calories or they might gain too much weight which can lead to all sorts of health issues. Obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years so it's important to keep an eye on their waistline from the word go.
One of the more serious health concerns with Briards is the fact they are prone to suffer from bloat (gastric torsion) and as such care has to be taken when they are fed. It's best for these dogs to be fed twice a day rather than giving them one meal a day. It's also important not to feed a Briard just before or just when they come back from a walk because by doing so dogs are put at greater risk of developing bloat.
Puppies need to be fed a highly nutritious good quality diet for them to develop and grow as they should. As a rough guide a Briard puppy should be fed the following amounts every day making sure their meals are evenly spread out throughout the day and it's best to feed them 3 or 4 times a day:
Once a Briard is 16 months old they can be fed adult food.
Once fully mature an adult Briard must be fed a good quality diet to ensure their continued good health. As a rough guide an adult Briard can be fed the following amounts every day:
If you are looking to buy a Briard you would need to pay anything from £600 to over £1000 for a well-bred pedigree puppy. However only very few puppies were registered with the Kennel Club over the last two years which means finding one could be a problem and if you do you may have to go on a long waiting list. The cost of insuring a male 3-year-old Briard in northern England would be £23.91 a month for basic cover but for a lifetime policy this would set you back £84.56 a month (quote as of March 2018). When insurance companies calculate a pet's premium they factor in several things which includes where you live in the UK and a dog's age and whether they have been neutered or spayed.
When it comes to food costs you need to buy the best quality food whether wet or dry to feed your dog throughout their lives making sure it suits the different stages of their lives. This would set you back between £50 - £60 a month. On top of this veterinary costs need to be factored in when sharing a home with a Briard which includes their initial vaccinations their annual boosters the cost of neutering or spaying your dog when the time is right and then their yearly health checks all of which quickly adds up to over a £1000 a year.
As a rough guide the average cost to keep and care for a Briard would be between £100 to £160 a month depending on the level of insurance cover you opt to buy for your dog but this does not include the initial cost of buying a well-bred Kennel Club registered pedigree Briard puppy.
When visiting and buying any puppy or dog there are many important things to consider and questions to ask of the breeder/seller. You can read our generic puppy/dog advice here which includes making sure you see the puppy with its mother and to verify that the dog has been wormed and microchipped.
Over recent times Briards have found a fanbase both in the UK and elsewhere in the world which means that well-bred puppies can often command a lot of money. As such with Briards there is specific advice questions and protocols to follow when buying a puppy which are as follows:
--------------------------------------------------
Collection of all the general dog breed info about Briard so you can get to know the breed more.
Due to its popularity, inbreeding may occur. A new study shows that inbreeding contributes to the incidence of disease and health problems.
The Briard is among the smartest dogs in the intelligence ranking.
They are receptive to their owner's emotions and make wonderful family companions.
Top reasons for barking: protection, alarm, fear, boredom, attention-seeking, greeting, separation anxiety, compulsive barking.
Low  🔽
Between 200 and 400 PSI  ⏺
The Briard, and many others, have a fearsome presence because they have significant jaw strength, so it is important not to anger the dog and have it around strangers until it is fully trained.
However, they are usually quite calm and good companions, they work well in families and are easy to care for.
In conclusion, while the Briard bite force is certainly an interesting aspect of the breed, it is important not to let it overshadow the many other reasons why these dogs are so loved and respected. With proper training and socialization, a Briard can be a loyal and protective companion for your family.
Do Briard dogs need a lot of exercises?
If you notice any weight gain, consult your veterinarian and make a diet plan. Reduce unhealthy food and snacks, and measure the Briard weight regularly.
Cutting the dog's hair by a professional groomer is essential. Everyday brushing of the dog's coat is necessary to reduce shedding.
Ears and eyes should be cleaned regularly to avoid infections. Don't skip the seasonal flea treatment too. Dog nail trimming and dog bath should be on a weekly schedule.
Taking good care of your Briard is time-consuming and requires excellent grooming skills. If you don't have the time and skill search for the best dog groomer or clipping service in your area and book an appointment.
If you notice any change in your dog's drooling habit, you should contact a vet as soon as possible.
Medium  ⏺
Bathing will wash away your dog’s natural oils, while a simple brushing every few days should keep them clean.
Not really This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Briard is not the best breed for service purposes.
This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Briard is not the best breed for service purposes.
Briard is not the best breed for service purposes.
Not really This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Briard is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Briard is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Briard is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Not really They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Briard is not the best breed for detection purposes.
They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Briard is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Briard is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Not really This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Briard is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Briard is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
The Briard is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
Not really Briard breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Briard breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Not really A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Briard is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Briard is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Briard is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Not really In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
60-64 days
During this time the females start to attract males. You can notice by swelling vulva and bloody discharge.
The second part is the Estrus when the female is receptive for the male. It lasts for about 3 to 11 days.
The sign of the proestrus part is the soft and enlarged vulva. The discharge decreases and lightens in color.
The third part is the Diestrus. Normally, it occurs around day 14. In this period the female’s discharge changes for vivid red and coming to its end. The vulva returns to average, and she will no longer permit mating.
The fourth part called the Anestrus. The time frame between heat periods normally lasts about six months.
Once a year.
Nov 18, 2023, 10:42:55 PM:
Whomever accumulated this information clearly has never met a Briard. Lots of misinformation here.
Apr 2, 2023, 8:02:59 PM:
love em
--------------------------------------------------
