Cat Breeds
Once known as the British Blue and exclusively bred for blue-gray coloring, the British Shorthair cat now comes in a multitude of colors, but it retains its typical rounded profile and it's delightful – yet somewhat reserved – personality.
In a nutshell, British Shorthair cats are pedigreed versions of British domestic shorthair cats that have been selectively bred over time to create a distinctive appearance and predictable personality traits.
These cats love their families and enjoy staying close, but they aren't big on cuddling. They prefer to lounge next to you rather than occupying your lap, and they aren't terribly demanding or overly vocal. British Shorthair cats make excellent pets for most households, but they don't tolerate disrespect, and they don't like to be held or carried.
These traits don’t add up to a mean or antisocial personality; instead, they’re an indicator that the British Shorthair may not be ideal for families with young children who aren't yet able to understand boundaries.
British Shorthair cats have no special nutritional needs; however, they are prone to obesity as they age. It's important to provide a high-quality diet that is relatively low in carbohydrates and high in protein.
Even though the breed is characterized by its short coat, they have a tendency to shed. Brushing your cat two to three times per week will help prevent fur from accumulating on your sofa, plus it will reduce the likelihood of hairballs.
You can help keep your cat healthy by brushing their teeth regularly. Regular nail trims can help prevent furniture damage.
British Shorthair cats have a playful streak, particularly during their youth. As these kitties get older, you might need to encourage play with interactive toys such as feathered wands and laser pointers. Battery-operated toys can encourage more activity, too.
The British Shorthair is a robust cat that generally enjoys excellent health. There are two known genetic disorders that can affect British Shorthair cats. Fortunately, breeders can screen for both and greatly reduce the likelihood of producing kittens with these disorders.
If you are considering a British Shorthair cat, check to ensure that the breeder has tested the parents for hemophilia B and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. While it is impossible to promise that cats will never develop hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, screening potential parents and not breeding those with signs of the disorder greatly reduces the risk in offspring.
The history of the British Shorthair cat is a fascinating one. This ancient breed is believed to date back to the first century A.D. when the Romans invaded Britain, they brought cats with them. These early domesticated cats were tasked with the important job of keeping Roman camps clear of mice and other pests.
The Romans' cats bred with local wildcats and as time passed, the offspring developed a distinctive look. Contemporary British Shorthairs retain the appearance of their ancestors, which were large and robust, with dense, short coats that provided protection from the elements.
Cat fancier and artist Harrison Weir is credited with helping to develop the breed as we know it today. During the 19th century, he – and perhaps other breeders – began selecting for the blue-gray variant that ultimately became the British Blue. The newly standardized British Shorthair took pride of place at the first cat show in history, which was held at the Crystal Palace in London in 1871.
Incredibly, the British Shorthair cat nearly became extinct during the first world war and along with many other breeds, was nearly wiped out again by the end of the second world war.
In an effort to save Britain's favorite cat, British Shorthair breeders introduced Persians to their bloodlines, ultimately creating British Longhair cats. Shorthaired offspring were also bred with Russian Blue cats and French Chartreux cats in an effort to emphasize desirable blue-grey coloring.
The British Blue was recognized by the American Cat Association in 1967.
By 1980, the British Shorthair had gained recognition from The International Cat Association and the Cat Fanciers Association. All cat associations now recognize the breed.
These days, the British Shorthair cat is available in nearly every color and pattern imaginable. Blue remains the most prevalent - and the most popular - British Shorthair cat color.
There is a behavioral difference between male and female British Shorthair cats. Males tend to have easy-going, laid-back attitudes, while females tended to take life more seriously.
The Cheshire Cat character featured in Alice in Wonderland is based on the British Shorthair.
British Shorthair cats are slow to mature. Most reach their full size by the end of their third year; some take as long as five years to fully mature.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The British Shorthair, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed British Shorthair or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a British Shorthair, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
British Shorthair cats cost between $300-$5,000.
British Shorthair cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown British Shorthair cat might weigh between 8-18 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 11"-14" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for British Shorthair is 12-16 years.
British Shorthair are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
I found this really interesting and helpful especially since my cats are 2 years old and one of my cats is really heavy!
This breed is my first cat ever and She is everything I wanted. She is easygoing, very friendly and independent. She came with a pet passport, which is wonderful. I can take her anywhere in this planet.
Adorable… excellent character,connecting with owner is many levels…
Very easy-going and calm, quiet breed.
He is my first ever cat and he was so quiet and calm, whid=ch led me to get more cats(lol).
They are very curious, so sometimes they get clumsy which is the cutest part!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
But only thing is that as they said in the article, they easily get obese(fat).
Thanks for sharing, and congratulations on your adorable first cat!
--------------------------------------------------
The British Shorthair is the pedigree version of the traditional British domestic cat, with a distinctively stocky body, thick coat, and broad face. The most familiar colour variant is the "British Blue", with a solid grey-blue coat, pineapple eyes, and a medium-sized tail. The breed has also been  bred in a wide range of other colours and patterns, including tabby and colourpoint.
It is one of the most ancient cat breeds known. It remains the most popular pedigreed breed in its native country, as registered by the UK's Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF). A quarter of all kittens registered with the GCCF each year are British Shorthairs, making the British the most popular pedigree cat in the UK.[1]
Researchers are not sure how cats first reached the British Isles. In many other parts of Europe, cats became common at the same time as the spread of the Roman Empire. However, it appears that housecats reached the British Isles before the Romans did.[3]
These cats then interbred with the local European wildcat population. Over the centuries, their naturally isolated descendants developed into distinctively large, robust cats with a short but very thick coat, to better withstand conditions on their native islands. Based on artists' representations, the modern British Shorthair is unchanged from this initial type.[4]
Selective breeding of the best examples of the type began in the nineteenth century, with emphasis on developing the unusual blue-grey variant called the "British Blue" or "English type" (to distinguish it from the more fine-boned "Russian type"). Some sources directly credit UK artist and pioneering cat fancier Harrison Weir with the initial concept of standardising the breed. Others suggest a group of breeders may have been involved. The new British Shorthair was featured at the first-ever cat show, organised by Weir and held at the Crystal Palace in London in 1871, and enjoyed great initial popularity.[5]
By the 1900s with the advent of the newly imported Persian and other long-haired breeds, the British Shorthair had fallen out of favour, and breeding stock had become critically rare by World War I.[6][page needed] At least partially to alleviate this, British Shorthair breeders mixed Persians into their bloodlines.[citation needed] The genes thus introduced would eventually become the basis for the British Longhair. At the time, any long-haired cats produced were placed into the Persian breeding program.[citation needed] As all cats with the blue colouration were then judged together as variants on a de facto single breed, the Blue Shorthair, outcrossings of the British with the Russian Blue were also common.[4]
After the war, in an attempt to maintain the breed standard, the GCCF decided to accept only third-generation Persian/British Shorthair crosses.[citation needed] This contributed to another shortage of pure breeding stock by World War II, at which point the Persian and Russian Blue were reintroduced into the mix.[citation needed]
British Shorthair breeders also worked with the French Chartreux, another ancient breed, which although genetically unrelated to the British Blue, is very similar in appearance. Breeders worked to reestablish the true British type, and by the late 1970s the distinctive British Shorthair had achieved formal recognition from both the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) and The International Cat Association (TICA).[4] According to the GCCF's 2013 registry data, it is once again the most popular pedigreed breed in its native country.[7]
The British Shorthair is a relatively powerful-looking, large cat having a broad chest, strong thick-set legs with rounded paws, and a medium-length, blunt-tipped tail. The head is relatively large and rounded, with a short muzzle, broad cheeks (most noticeable in mature males, who tend to develop prominent jowls) and large round eyes that are deep copper orange in the British Blue and otherwise vary in colour depending on the coat. Their large ears are broad and widely set.[8]
They are slow to mature in comparison with most cat breeds, reaching full physical development at approximately three years of age. Unusually among domestic cats, they are a noticeably sexually dimorphic breed, with males averaging 9–17 lb (4.1–7.7 kg) and females 7–12 lb (3.2–5.4 kg).[9][10]
The British Shorthair's coat is one of the breed's defining features. It is very dense, the texture being plush rather than woolly or fluffy, with a firm, "crisp" pile that breaks noticeably over the cat's body as it moves.[4][8]
Although the British Blue remains the most familiar variant, British Shorthairs have been developed in many other colours and patterns. Black, blue, white, red, cream, silver, golden and—most recently—cinnamon and fawn are accepted by all official standards, either solid or in colourpoint, tabby, shaded and bicolour patterns; the GCCF, FIFe and TICA also accept chocolate and its dilute lilac, disallowed in the CFA standard.[11] All colours and patterns also have tortoiseshell variants.[8]
The Tabby patterns include [12] Classic Tabby, Mackerel Tabby, Spotted & Ticked Tabby. The non-tabby patterns include: Tortoiseshell, Bi-Colour, Van patterns Bi-Colour & White, Smoke, Tipped & Colourpointed.
British Shorthair's nose colour: black, cherry red, brick red; a circle of black nasal line on the periphery.
First introduced to Britain by the Romans, the British shorthair was one of the domestic cats originally bred for its hunting prowess. In the last 150 years, breeding has emphasized physical qualities.[13] The British Shorthair breed debuted — along with a wide range of other selectively bred felines — in the first organized cat show arranged by Harrison Weir at London's Crystal Palace in 1871.[14] British shorthairs remained the premiere pedigree at cat shows up until 1895.[15]
Shortly after the British Shorthair exhibit in the Crystal Palace show, the popularity of British Shorthair increased. The public began searching for breeders of British Shorthairs with various character and color traits, all in the pursuit of "exoticness".[16] From the late 19th century to the early 20th century, certain British Shorthairs would occasionally earn notoriety or decorated titles in Cat Competitions.[16] The British Shorthair publicity from 19th and 20th century cat shows helped British Shorthairs become one of the most popular pet cat breeds today. For example, in the 1980s, the British Shorthair was featured in competition by the Cat Fancier's Association (CFA), which led to an increased demand for British Shorthairs as household pets. As of 2023, the British Shorthair ranks as the 6th most popular cat breed in the United States.[17]
As of 2015,[update] the TICA cat show competition standards for British Shorthairs judge the cats for their circular head shape, muzzle, and cheeks. Small to medium ears are desired, with large, round, leveled eyes. Eye shape is more important than colour. The muzzle and chin shape should complement the circular face; the profile and nose should be short, further complementing the circular face. The neck should give the illusion of the cat having no neck, blending in with the cheeks. The body of the cat should have a sturdy and muscular torso, complemented by medium to short legs, finished with round medium to large feet. The tail should be thick at the base and taper to a rounded tip, totaling about two thirds of the body length. The cat should have substantial bone and a firm,  sturdy musculature. No preference on colour is stated for the cat's coat, but the coat should be straight, dense, and even in length.[18]
The British Longhair, also known as the Highlander or Highland Straight, is a longhaired variant of the British Shorthair. Some registries such as The International Cat Association recognise it as a distinct breed,[19] others such as the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy treat it as a variant of the British Shorthair, which may be referred to as simply 'British'.[20]
The breed is identical to the British Shorthair aside from its longer and denser coat.[21]
A UK study looking at veterinary records found a life expectancy of 9.58 years for the British Shorthair and British Longhair compared to 11.74 years overall.[22] Swedish insurance data puts the median lifespan of the breed at >12.5 years. Eighty-two percent of British Shorthairs lived to 10 years or more, and 54% lived to 12.5 years or more.[23]
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) can be a problem in the breed. A Danish prevalence study with more than 329 cats showed that 20.4% of males and 2.1% of the females had HCM, with an additional 6.4% of males and 3.5% of females judged to be equivocal.[24] HCM testing of males used for breeding is now mandatory for breeders organised under the Danish Fife member, Felis Danica.[25]
The breed is thought to be at high risk of polycystic kidney disease (PKD).[26]
A study of over 190,000 patient records in England found the British Shorthair to be less than half as likely to acquire diabetes mellitus as either moggies or the overall cat population; 0.24% of British Shorthairs were diagnosed with the condition compared to 0.58% for both non-pedigree cats and the overall prevalence.[27]
In 2022, the British Shorthair was one of eight cats featured on a series of UK postage stamps issued by the Royal Mail.[28]
--------------------------------------------------
A cat breeder, Harrison Wier took a street cat of Britain and with an intensive breeding program, transformed it to the British Shorthair.
The British loved this beautiful pedigree cat. During the Second World War, the British Shorthair all but disappeared but re-emerged as a popular cat that is today accepted in cat registries around the world.
The British Shorthair is a medium to large-sized cat and he can be anything from 5 to 9kg. He has a short to medium-length dense coat that can either be a solid color, bi-color tortoiseshell or patterned.
The coat becomes thicker and longer in the winter. This is a robust, strong cat, being heavily muscled with heavy bones. The cat also has a broad chest with thick, strong legs. The ears are fairly small and the round eyes give him a totally amicable expression on his face.
The British Shorthair is an amicable cat and makes a superb companion as it's an easy-going cat that adores his human family, being loyal towards them.
The British Shorthair is an active cat and it is able to get by on his own for a few hours without human company.  If you do work particularly long hours and you go out a lot, it will be kind to perhaps get another cat for him as a friend.
He is quiet and undemanding and because he is big and heavy he doesn’t like being carried around.
The British Shorthair is such a companionable cat, being intelligent and affectionate, even though he isn’t a lapcat as such.
That doesn’t mean he doesn’t love being around his human companions. He does and is loyal to them.
They’re laid back cats and are capable of getting on well with children in the home as well as with other pets. He just loves lazing around in the sun and can spend a few hours on his own without feeling anxious or lonely.
These cats are really great companions and they make themselves at home in different lifestyles, whether you live in the countryside or in town and whether you are single, a couple or a family with children and other pets.
Easy to care for, the British Shorthair cat is guaranteed to make you an excellent companion.
These beautiful cats are a robust, healthy type of cat breed and if you care well for him, you aren’t going to be taking him along to the vet too often. He can also live to be up to 20 years of age.
This cat has been bred with Persians in the past, so this should alert you to some of the diseases that this particular cat breed is susceptible to. It makes the cat a little bit vulnerable to polycystic kidney, an inherited condition in cats that causes cysts to form in the kidneys. They are small at first but they can grow bigger and actually result in kidney failure.
The British Shorthair is a fairly large, robust cat but that certainly doesn’t mean he must be fat. Being overweight can bring about a range of health issues and you want to follow an appropriate diet for him ad see that he gets enough exercise.
When it comes to feeding your British Shorthair, always look out for the very best, most nutritious food there is as he is a big cat.
You want to ensure your pet gets enough protein as cats are carnivores - they’re meat eaters and they require chicken,  beef and fish. You can give your cat some cooked egg as they are an excellent source of protein.
Be very careful not to be tempted to give your cat chocolates, grapes, nuts, onions or garlic as foods like this are toxic for your cat and can cause him pain and discomfort.
Remember to ensure that there is always a constant supply of fresh, cool water for your cat.  If you’re wondering what to feed your cat or you have any other concerns, don’t hesitate to speak to your vet.
Brush your British Shorthair when he starts to shed his winter coat and trim the nails.
Do things for your cat that you would do for your own human child. This is your beloved fur-child and you want him to be happy and healthy.
Check inside his mouth to make sure there aren’t any loose or blackened teeth that could be causing him terrible pain. Also, check inside his ears for signs of redness.
Your British Shorthair is an elegant, clean type of cat so you want to keep his litterbox nice and clean for him.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: PHOTOCREO Michal Bednarek, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 1, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The British Shorthair is the purebred version of the standard British domestic cat or “generic” British cat breed. They have a lovely, calm temperament and are friendly with most people at a short distance, yet they still retain the classic cat independence and love their time apart! They’re not excessively social but tolerate other pets well, making them one of the ultimate family cats. For more detailed info on their characteristics and physical traits, read on.
Height:
12 to 14 inches
Weight:
8 to 17 pounds
Lifespan:
12 to 20 years
Colors:
White, black, blue, cream, red, lilac, chocolate, bicolor, tortoiseshell, calico, tabby
Suitable for:
Any home, with or without kids or other pets
Temperament:
Calm, loving, independent
The British Shorthair is one of the most recognizable and yet diverse cat breeds in the world, tracing its ancestry back to cats kept around in ancient Rome to hunt vermin that plagued essential grain stores. They’re widely known for their round head, stocky body, and dense plush coat that can display a startling array of colorations.

Due to the wide variety of colorations in the breed, British Shorthair breeders tend to focus on one or a few specific-colored bloodlines. Solid lilac is possibly the rarest color of all, while the pineapple-headed solid blue is the most iconic when you think of the eponymous British Shorthair kittens.
Finding a reputable cat breeder or cattery isn’t terribly difficult, but it can be tricky if you don’t know what to look for. It’s sad to say, but some breeders are little more than kitten mills, and you want to avoid them at all costs.

The British short hair tends to be a placid and easy-going cat. They are some of the most loyal and loving cats, and they will often attach themselves to several family members. While they enjoy playing, they also don’t mind spending time by themselves. Better yet, they tend to get along with many other pets.
Yes, they make ideal family pets for families with or without children. Unlike some breeds, the British Shorthair is remarkably tolerant toward children and will run away rather than exhibit aggression. They’re affectionate toward all members of the family and have a gentle spirit that fits in wonderfully with any household.
Most cats of this breed don’t like being picked up and carried around, but they might like to cuddle or settle by your head on top of the couch. Though very friendly and mild-mannered, British Shorthairs do like their alone time and need space to explore, play, hang out, and rest in private.
Yes, British Shorthairs are fairly social felines that get along with other cats and many dogs, but socialization is key in tempering skittish streaks. Cats that have negative encounters with other animals during kittenhood are more likely to be afraid of other animals later in life. To prevent this and make for a happier kitty, expose your British Shorthair kitten to as many sights, sounds, places, people, and animals as possible. It helps them to learn what’s normal, so to speak, and helps them learn house manners around other pets.
That said, they are absolutely pureblooded felines, making them poor housemates for small prey animals. Hamsters, guinea pigs, rabbits, and even reptiles are all tempting targets for these born hunters

Like any breed, British Shorthairs need high-quality cat food with at least 30% protein, beneficial fats, amino acids, taurine, and a lesser amount of carbs and trace nutrients. You can continue using the cat food sent home with your kitten by the breeder, as suddenly changing their diet can cause gastric upset. What you want to look out for is overeating because British Shorthairs are less active cats that can put on pounds quickly if you don’t portion their food correctly.
Providing enough hydration is essential too, as cats that don’t drink enough can develop kidney-related problems. Always make sure your British Shorthair has access to fresh, clean water, and consider offering canned wet food multiple times weekly as a healthy and hydrating treat. Canned wet food contains 70% moisture compared to the average kitty kibble containing just 10% water.
The British Shorthair isn’t a hyperactive kitty, and their exercise needs are pretty minimal—30 minutes a day should do the trick. They enjoy the same types of things other cats do, like stalking, exploring, and climbing to high vantage points, so make sure you invest in some good cat toys and look into a cat tower to keep them happy. Personally, we love cat towers with built-in scratching posts to help encourage healthy scratching and mitigate potential furniture destruction.
Keeping your British Shorthair moderately active with mentally stimulating toys and games can help stave off obesity, too, especially if your cat has a habit of overeating and tends to be sedentary. Making sure they’re active enough and have access to enough water are both key in preventing kidney problems as well.
British Shorthairs aren’t as dog-like as, say, Maine Coons, but they’re intelligent felines with the potential to learn tricks. Start by teaching them their name, and always have an enticing treat like tuna on hand to incentivize cooperation during training sessions.
Like most cats, British Shorthairs are fastidious about self-grooming and take care of their coat very well without human assistance. Their plush short coat doesn’t shed very much at all, but we suggest brushing them with a soft brush once a week to remove any dead hair. During the spring and fall shedding seasons, you may want to groom their coat twice a week to minimize the amount of fur shed on the ground or on your furniture.
The other major grooming involves your British Shorthair’s claws and teeth. Some cats despise toothbrushes and will rebuff attempts to manually clean their teeth, but dental treats help keep those chompers healthy. To keep their claws neat and healthy, trim their claws every 6 weeks or when they get uncomfortably long.
British Shorthairs are generally a healthy breed, but like any breed, they’re more vulnerable to developing certain health conditions than others. Your vet will help you look out for signs of major health conditions with periodic wellness checks throughout your cat’s life, but for now, you can check out a few of the British Shorthair’s most common health issues below.

Female British Shorthairs are a little smaller than males and, on average, tend to live for a year or two longer than males. As far as personality, males are a little goofier and loving, while females are more quiet and thoughtful. That’s just a generalization, though, because genetics are more important than breed as far as specific behavioral traits like an affectionate nature or reclusiveness.

It might have never occurred to you that the famed Cheshire Cat from Alice in Wonderland was based on a real-life cat, but just look at him! He has the same familiar and famous round head, wide eyes, and stocky body as the British Shorthair.
Genetics take turns and swerves, but the British Shorthair bloodline as a whole can be traced back to the first-century A.D. Romans who used cats to keep their war camps clear of vermin and snakes. From there, they became the modern British Shorthair and offshoots became the ubiquitous but not purebred British domestics.
The British Shorthair remains the most popular registered cat breed in their home country of Britain, with a quarter of all kittens registered yearly belonging to the breed. They’re mainly known for their blue variety, hence the name British Blue, and are frequently mixed with the Russian Blue to create a more plush blue coat and friendly demeanor.

If you’re looking for a family pet with a calm, loving personality who won’t shed a lot, the British Shorthair might be the perfect fit! They’re not very hard to find and get along with nearly any type of housemate, furry or small humans alike. As a bonus, they come in an astoundingly wide color palette.
See also:
Featured Image Credit: PHOTOCREO Michal Bednarek, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Codee Chessher is a freelance writer with extensive knowledge on a variety of subjects that include travel, DIY, pets, and more. He has a colorful past but the written word was always his first love. He believes there's nothing a well-worded sentence can't accomplish!

When not writing, Codee enjoys reading fantasy novels, tackling DIY projects around the house, and memorizing useless pop culture trivia. He has lived in many places around the US, and most recently resides in northern Mexico.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
One of the oldest recognized cat breeds, the British Shorthair, or the British Blue cat, is generous, dynamic, and as attention-loving as a cat can be. If you’re in the vicinity of a British Blue cat, be sure that they’ll do anything in their power to grab your attention and get some much-appreciated affection from you.
The British Shorthair is a medium to large sized, compact, chunky cat, known for their attractive features and thick, plush fur.
Short coupled and robust, the British Shorthair is instantly recognisable by their rounded face and large round eyes, giving this cat an adorable expression and bags of character.
Affectionate, playful, and loyal, the British Shorthair is a very companionable cat with family and close friends, although like many cats they may take a little time to warm up to strangers. A relatively quiet cat, and surprisingly gregarious, the British Shorthair gets on well in multi-cat households and will befriend other household pets too, particularly cat-friendly dogs.
Likely to be the first selectively bred cat breed, despite its name, the British Shorthair traces its roots back to Rome, and the cats brought here with the Romans, as mousers, ratters, and probably sneaky stowaways! Cats brought by Roman invaders would have had to be tough, clever, weather-proof, and hardy, to survive the journey and to breed with the native wildcats! Once on British soil, they made themselves at home and eventually began to be selectively bred for their rounded and appealing appearance, and affectionate nature. First recorded as the British Shorthair in 1870, the breed has been popular ever since.
Happy indoors with sufficient entertainment, or outdoors providing a safe, cat-secure garden is available, the British Shorthair is more inclined toward short bursts of activity, interspersed with long naps, than lengthy periods of exercise. To provide the best of both worlds, free access to an outdoor cat secure area or ‘catio’ will meet the British Shorthair’s needs nicely.
The British Shorthair does need company and this is a very human-oriented breed. They like their people, and they like to spend plenty of time with them.
Not quite so curious and active as some, the British Shorthair can be a bit of a couch-potato, so it is wise to encourage some exercise in the form of food dispensing toys, and chasing games. Cat trees can be used cleverly and by hiding little piles of food on each level rather than feeding from a bowl, you can encourage your British Shorthair to move around to ‘hunt’ for food — as they do have a tendency to put on weight.
Every cat is unique and each has their own particular likes, dislikes, and needs when it comes to food. However, cats are carnivores and every cat must obtain 41 different and specific nutrients from their food. The proportion of these nutrients will vary depending on age, lifestyle, and overall health, so it's not surprising that a growing, energetic British Blue kitten needs a different balance of nutrients in their diet than a less active senior cat. Other considerations to bear in mind are feeding the right quantity of food to maintain 'ideal body condition' in accordance with feeding guidelines and catering to individual preference regarding wet or dry food recipes.
Although a shorthaired cat, the British Shorthair has a very dense coat, so a comb through once a week will help get rid of dead hair, and will serve as a good check over for any parasites or injuries. By doing a quick groom regularly, you’ll be able to spot if a cat is unwell, one of the first signs is often a greasy coat where a cat is unable to reach, or not feeling well enough to make the usual effort.
As with all cats, regular vaccination and parasite control is recommended and this should be discussed with your vet, as well as an annual veterinary cat health check.

Friendly, loyal, and people loving, the British Shorthair is ideal for child-free homes and homes with older children, however they are not particularly forgiving of very small children who haven’t yet learned to respect a cat. Their wide-eyed, round-faced appearance is often mistaken by very young children as being that of a toy or doll, so caution should be exercised.
Are British Blue cats friendly?
Yes, they can be very friendly with anyone, however, can sometimes be less forgiving of children, especially those who are not used to cat behaviours. So, best to introduce them slowly, and make sure children respect their space needs.
Are British Blue cats lazy?
British Blue cats are known to be very placid and easy going so they prefer spending most of their time lounging around and napping, rather than being highly active.
Are British Blue cats talkative?
In general, they can be slightly chatty, especially when they want something and need to get your attention.
Why do British Blue cats not like being picked up?
Although they love getting attention, British Blue cats are not big fans of being picked up and mostly prefer a hands-off approach when interacting with humans. Picking them up puts them in a vulnerable and uncomfortable situation, so it’s best to keep pick-ups and hugs to a minimum.
--------------------------------------------------
