Cat Breeds
Burmese cats are accomplished conversationalists in sleek, soft packages. These gorgeous cats are direct descendants of Siamese cats, which explains their chatty nature. However, their voices are softer and less demanding.
Just like their cousins, Burmese cats are playful, energetic, and highly intelligent. They're extremely sociable and they love to snuggle. In fact, these cats are so affectionate that the National Alliance of Burmese Breeders (NABB) has nicknamed them the "ultimate companion cats."
There are two types of Burmese cats: American and European. The American and European Burmese both trace their roots back to the same beginnings, but they were developed separately early on. Today, they are two separate breeds with different breed standards. The American Burmese, which in the United States is simply referred to as the Burmese, is stockier, with a broader head, a shorter muzzle, and distinct rounded eyes. The European Burmese, also called the British Burmese, has a longer muzzle, a wedge-shaped head, and eyes that are distinctly slanted.
Burmese cats do not have any special nutritional needs. Like all cats, Burmese do require high-quality cat food with meat as the first ingredient.
Since diabetes and obesity can be a problem for these cats, particularly later in life, it's important to limit their carbohydrate intake.
Thanks to their soft, fine, short coats, Burmese cats do not require much in terms of grooming. A weekly brushing can help remove dead hair, and a quick rub with a chamois can help bring out the shine in their coat.
It’s also a good idea to teach your cat to accept toothbrushing and nail trimming from a young age.
Burmese cats love to play so getting enough exercise isn't usually a problem. These energetic kitties have a reputation for carrying their favorite toys to their family members for fun games of fetch. They love to jump and climb, so you'll want to provide a durable cat tree.
If you want to engage your cat and boost their activity, interactive toys such as laser pointers and teasers are ideal for the job.
The Burmese is generally healthy, however some health issues can affect some members of the breed.
Hypokalemia, or low blood potassium, can occur in some Burmese. The condition is not fatal, but it causes skeletal muscle weakness. Your veterinarian can prescribe a potassium supplement if your cat has hypokalemia.
Some Burmese cats suffer from diabetes. Avoiding high carbohydrate foods and keeping your pet at the correct weight are two preventative actions that can reduce the risk of developing diabetes.
A small percentage of Burmese are born with cranial deformities (congenital frontonasal dysplasia), a condition known as Burmese head defect. Others suffer from glaucoma and some are prone to urinary tract disease and kidney stones. Burmese cats are also prone to feline hyperaesthesia syndrome (also called twitchy cat disease).
Genetic tests are available for some of the inherited conditions that affect Burmese, including Burmese head defect and Burmese hypokalemia. Responsible breeders test their adult cats prior to breeding them to avoid passing on known genetic issues.
The Burmese cat has an intriguing history. The breed's story begins with a chocolate-colored cat named Wong Mau.
Dr. Joseph Thompson of  San Francisco brought Wong Mau home with him after a trip to Burma in 1930. Wong Mau was small with a more compact body than that of the Siamese, with a shorter tail, a rounded head, short muzzle, and round, widely spaced eyes.
Dr. Thompson also noted that the cat had darker brown points that accentuated her sable coat. Curious to see what offspring would look like, he bred her to a Siamese cat. The breeding produced a litter of kittens that included some with the appearance of Siamese cats and others that looked like their mother.
Dr. Thompson then mated Wong Mau to one of her brown kittens. This time, the litter contained three different kitten types: Some looked like Siamese cats, some resembled their mother, and some were dark brown with no points. The sable colored cats without points were ultimately used to create the foundation of the Burmese breed.
Burmese cats were first registered by the Cat Fanciers' Association in 1936, and the breed gained full recognition in 1957. Part of the reason for the delay was that some Burmese breeders were crossing their cats with Siamese —a practice that was ultimately prohibited. The outcrossings resulted in the development of the Tonkinese cat, so it certainly provided some benefits that cat fanciers can appreciate!
Today, CFA recognizes both the American Burmese and European Burmese. All major cat registries recognize Burmese cats, but not all colors are permitted within all registries.
Burmese cats love to get into things. They easily learn to open cupboards to investigate the contents, so you'll want to keep your kitchen cat-proofed if you bring one of these inquisitive felines into your life.
Most Burmese cats trust strangers and make friends easily. If you often have visitors, this cat's outstanding social skills are sure to make a splash!
Thanks to its muscular physique, the Burmese cat is heavier than it looks. These cats have been described as "bricks wrapped in silk."
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Burmese, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Burmese or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Burmese, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Burmese cats cost between $450-$3,000.
Burmese cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Burmese cat might weigh between 8-12 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8"-10" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Burmese is 12-16 years.
Burmese are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
I had a burmese many yrs ago. He was great. I still miss him. He got old and died.  Switched to dogs. Now I am getting a rescue. 8 yr old. female. I am so excited to bring her home. She had an illness? now is well. All before I get her. My Eros, his name, use to yowl on occasion. Friends thought I had an infant. No, that’s my cat. I’m home all day/night. So we will be happy together.
The Burmese is the sweetest, most loving breed of all the felines. My first Burmese was a sable, and he lived to be 21 years old. Two months after he passed away I got a new Burmese baby and he will be nine in September. They are little humans with four paws and a tail. They are highly highly intelligent, the ultimate lap cat with a dog like traits. They will follow you everywhere and like to be where you are and involved in what you’re doing.  They are extremely sociable very trusting and therefore should only be an indoor cat. They are extremely easy to care for and have gorgeous, silky coats that don’t shed. If you’re looking for the ultimate companion, that’s loving, friendly likes to play is well behaved and will have a long lifespan the Burmese is the cat for you..
We were given a young Burmese kitten (3mth) now 1 year old. An amazing cat. Has never growled and thinks he is a human and follows us everywhere, can’t miss out on the action be it the laundry, garden or garage he is there poking his nose into everything. Very affectionate and will run in front of anyone and immediately flop to the ground and roll onto his back wanting his belly rubbed. But should he catch a mouse, there is no way he is sharing. He wants us all to know he has one but takes off with it the moment I get close. Likes high places and cardboard boxes are a must. The most chilled out non aggressive cat I have ever owned. Highly recommend. Steve, Sydney, Australia.
I have only had one Burmese, she was wonderful !     A breeder was closing her business, she had a 5 year old Burmese, she had house trained.  I was looking for a  lap cat ,and  she wa looking for a good Owner.  She gave me the Burmese, I paid  the airfare from NY to DE.  I  do  not recall loving a pet as much a I came to love her.  Unfortunately she died this past November, 2022. I will never forget her. so yes I really like and appreciate  the Burmese breed.  I am hoping to find another.
Thanks for sharing—wishing you all the best.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Oleksandr Volchanskyi, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 17, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead        

















 



                            Characteristics                        



                            Kittens                        



                            Temperament                        



                            Intelligence                        



                            Food & Diet                        



                            Exercise                        



                            Health                        



                            Training                        



                            Grooming                        



                            Fun Facts
Click Below to Skip Ahead
If you’ve been considering adopting a Burmese cat and are looking for information about the breed, you’ve come to the right place. Keep reading to learn more about these fantastic cats.
Height:
10–12 inches
Weight:
8–12 pounds
Lifespan:
15–20 years
Colors:
Champagne, platinum, fawn, cream, cinnamon, sable, blue, chocolate, and various patterns
Suitable for:
Families and individuals interested in a loving, attentive, fun-loving companion
Temperament:
Energetic, super smart, and playful
There’s a good chance Burmese cats have been around for a long time. They may be related to cats that are naturally found in parts of Southeast Asia in the area once referred to as Burma. The breed officially started when a brown cat from the area was brought to the United States and bred with Siamese cats during the first part of the 20th century.

Because these cats make excellent companions, finding adoptable kittens in shelters may be difficult, so you’ll likely need to purchase one from a breeder. However, Burmese kittens raised by breeders are usually relatively easy to find since they have been around for quite some time, and there are plenty of catteries working with the cats. Breeders often prefer to keep kittens until they’re at least 12 weeks old before sending them to their forever homes.
Burmese kittens are known for being curious, playful, and active, and Burmese cats are not much different. These adorable kittens often grow into cats who remain quite kitten-like well into adulthood. Kittens become adults when they’re about 1 year old, but most continue to fill out a bit here and there for a while longer.
Cats usually settle into their adult personalities when they reach about 2 years old. Exposing cats to tasks like clipping their nails and brushing their teeth while they’re still young can make a huge difference in their overall comfort.

Burmese cats have a wonderful combination of traits that makes them amazing companions! They’re active, friendly, and interested in having fun with people; they’re incredibly social and thrive in environments where they get lots of attention and can participate in household activities.
Many Burmese happily engage in conversations with their favorite people to ensure their opinions and wishes are known to all, and some follow their favorites around the house. Because they love interacting with new people and animals, they’re best kept indoors for their safety. They’re often described as having dog-like personalities.
Burmese cats make fantastic family companions! They’re active, alert, playful, and love being involved in whatever is happening at home. They have lots of energy and are fun to play with, but they’re also champion snugglers who are happy to mellow out with their favorite people.
Burmese cats generally get along with other cats and dogs quite well. Because they are so social and prefer having company, they do best in homes where someone is always home.

Here are a few aspects of Burmese care you should know before giving one a forever home.
Burmese cats don’t need to eat special food to stay healthy; high-quality brands that provide all the nutrients felines require are generally acceptable. Products with an Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) statement of nutritional adequacy contain everything cats need to do well.
Kittens and lactating queens require special food that’s higher in protein and calories than what’s included in normal adult cat food, so they should eat formulations specifically designed to support their needs. Staying on top of how much they eat is critical, as Burmese cats are prone to gaining weight.
Cats require regular physical activity to stay in top shape, and playtime is a fun way for them to get exercise that also engages their natural hunting instincts. Not only does exercise provide entertainment, but it’s also critical for cats’ overall well-being. It helps relieve stress and get rid of pent-up energy, which can often lead to less-than-ideal behavior if not properly channeled.
Getting daily exercise can help cats stay relaxed, happy, and centered. Exercise is also vital to ensure they maintain a healthy weight. Overweight pets are at increased risk for developing several severe health conditions, such as heart disease and arthritis. About two to three short daily play sessions are ideal.
Burmese cats are clever and interested in interacting with people, so they’re often relatively easy to train. They can learn to sit, respond to their name, and speak on command. Many can also be trained to play fetch and say hi when asked to.
Burmese cats often respond well to clicker training since it makes it easy for them to determine which action you’re looking for. Positive reinforcement is ideal for motivating cats to participate; treats and snuggles are generally welcome. Short sessions keep things interesting for Burmese cats; 15-minute sessions are the longest most cats can tolerate.
Burmese cats don’t require much attention in the grooming department; their silky short coats generally only require weekly brushing. Regular brushing is not only a great bonding activity that many cats enjoy, but it’s also a great way to help support their coat health since it stimulates the skin and distributes cats’ natural oils, which can help keep their fur nice and shiny.
They must also have their nails trimmed about every 2 to 4 weeks or so. Brushing their teeth at least a few times a week can help limit the accumulation of tartar, which can help keep gingivitis and periodontal disease at bay. Toothpaste made specifically for cats should always be used, as human toothpaste contains fluoride, which is a feline no-no.
Burmese cats generally are a pretty healthy bunch; most live anywhere from 15 to 20 years, which is on the high end of average for cats; the average feline lifespan is about 13 to 17 years.
Burmese cats have a few health conditions that can present challenges, such as diabetes and feline orofacial pain syndrome (FOPS), which results in cats having severe pain around the mouth and nose. Other conditions Burmese cats are prone to developing include hypokalemic polymyopathy, which causes their muscles to weaken and causes problems with activities such as walking.
Male and female Burmese cats are generally about the same size, but males can be a bit bigger. Males are more muscular and are often considered a bit mellower than female Burmese cats, and females are more inclined to be active and involved in household activities.
Unspayed pets can be more vocal and likelier to escape their homes. Unneutered male cats often spray and get into fights. Spaying and neutering pets reduces these behaviors and has health benefits as well.
Spayed cats have far lower chances of developing certain types of cancer and uterine infections. Neutering drastically lowers the chances of cats getting into fights and becoming injured.

Wong Mau, a short-haired brown cat brought from Burma to San Fransico in 1930, is considered the “Mother of the Breed”. Her dark brown color was passed on through many of her descendants, causing an increase in the Burmese cat’s popularity.
Yes, this is definitely an unusual sleeping position for cats, but this is semi-common for Burmese cats. No need to get worried if you find your Burmese cat napping on their back!
During the late 1930s and early 1940s, breeding Burmese cats became so popular that it was more common to see hybrids instead of pure Burmese. Due to the fact that hybrids were trying to be registered, the CFA withdrew its recognition of this breed. However, once strict breeding regulations regarding the Burmese cat were in place, the CFA admitted the breed to championship status in 1957.

Burmese cats make amazing companions that bring love, laughter, and devoted companionship to the families they become part of. They’re athletic, active, and sweet cats that love spending time with people, cuddling, playing, supervising, and just hanging out. Burmese cats typically live long lives but are at increased risk for developing diseases such as diabetes and hypokalemic polymyopathy.
Burmese cats generally get along well with children and other pets, and they thrive in households where they have lots of companionship because of their social natures.
Featured Image Credit: Oleksandr Volchanskyi, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Lorre Luther is a writer who is firmly convinced that cats are smarter than humans. She left her law career in the United States and moved to the Netherlands to follow her dream of becoming a writer. Lorre currently lives in Rotterdam, she enjoys traveling and greatly appreciates the beauty of nature. Lorre has a spot for animals and admires the intelligence of cats.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Seregraff, Shutterstock
Last Updated on March 13, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click to Skip Ahead
The unique, yellow-eyed Burmese cat has developed over time into a charming, instantly recognizable breed. The ones you see today have quite a different appearance from their ancestors in Burma.
While the Cat Fanciers’ Association only recognizes four separate coat colors, breeders have developed a style all their own when it comes to these creatures. There are tons of tones and variations, let’s take a closer look at just how many there are.

Burmese cats come in many interesting shades, but the Cat Fanciers’ Association only recognizes four. Let’s start with those first!
A sable Burmese kitten may appear to be a bit lighter initially, but they darken as they grow.
Champagne Burmese cats have a creamy honey-colored coat that bleeds into darker shades of ashy brown. The face, paws, ears, and tail are the darkest, with the lightest color on their underbelly and chest.
Burmese kittens may appear extremely light, but their faces and paws darken in color as they get older.
Blue is arguably the most sought-after of all the Burmese cat colors—which is not all that surprising. The blue color varies between dusty grey and deep, vibrant periwinkle. Most blues have sensational green eyes, though they can vary.
Unlike some other Burmese coats, the blue color tends to be more evenly distributed, though it can darken at the tail tips.
As you might guess by the name, Platinum is the lightest of all Burmese colors. Like the champagne, platinum-coated Burmese cats tend to be lighter on their underbelly and chest. However, their face isn’t as defined by dark tones.

While the Cat Fanciers’ Association may not recognize these cats as having different coats, there is more to admire. Breeders advertise their kittens in terms of more specific colors than just the four we saw. Let’s take a look at the sensational variety among them.
Lilac Burmese cats technically fall under the blue category but with a slightly purplish hue on the face, paws, and tail. Lilac Burmese kittens may display a brownish tint to the face that lightens and softens over time.
Fawn Burmese cats fall into the champagne range but with a slightly different look. Not all have a classically dark mask, but most do. Their masks are usually chocolate or coffee-colored, noticeably darker than the rest of their fur.

A post shared by Зоопсихолог консультации (@oksana_burmese)

Like many other Burmese cats, the red becomes more prominent as they age.

A post shared by Sir Lancelot Grandia (@sir_lancelot_grandia)

The cream Burmese cat would fall into the platinum category. They are very blonde in color with pink noses. They also have distinct lined markings of darker color on their head and bordering their eyes.
Cream tends to be a slightly softer color than fully platinum cats. Even though they technically fall into the same category, there are noticeable differences.
Who wouldn’t want a beautiful little mocha-colored Burmese cat? The gorgeous ash-brown color contrasts their penetrating eyes. Their noses stay roughly the same shade as their coat but may be slightly lighter or darker—depending on the cat.
The smooth color pattern gently darkens around the back, tail, paws, and face.

A post shared by Marjan Nijenhuis (@marjannijenhuis)

The lovely cinnamon-colored Burmese cat falls into the sable category but with a rusty peppered zest to their fur. They have a creamy pale color with soft pink noses.
This coloring has very distinctive lines on the forehead, darkening into a sandy beige color.
Tortoiseshells, or torties, are the only Burmese coat color on the list that combines multiple colors in their fur. This coat pattern combines patches of red, black, and various hues therein. However, unlike the calico patterns, torties never sport white in their coats.
Torties are almost exclusively female cats. If you ever end up with a male, you’ll have one of the rarest possibilities, accounting for only 0.1% of all tortoiseshell cats across the board. They’re usually sterile (and probably worth a lot of money).

The beautiful Burmese cat has such a brilliant array of soft colors. From nearly white to deep chocolate, they have unique shades of fading hues. Of all these lovely shades, which of the 11 color schemes is your favorite?
See also:
Featured Image Credit: Seregraff, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The Burmese cat, often referred to as the “Burmese,” is a distinctive and popular breed known for its striking appearance, affectionate nature, and engaging personality. Their affectionate and sociable nature makes them wonderful companions for individuals and families alike. The Burmese cat breed originated in Southeast Asia, specifically in Burma (now Myanmar), and breeders brought the cat to the Western world in the early 20th century. They are closely related to the Siamese cat and share some common ancestry.
Burmese cats typically have affectionate, outgoing, and people-oriented personalities. They are “people cats” because they enjoy human companionship and thrive on social interaction. These cats are highly intelligent, playful, and curious, making them wonderful additions to households with active families.
When considering a Burmese, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Burmese kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Burmese breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
The ancestors of the Burmese are the Siamese and the “copper cat” of Burma (now known as Myanmar). It’s thought that they were temple and palace cats bred and kept by priests. The matriarch of the modern Burmese was a small, dark-brown cat named Wong Mau. She belonged to Dr. Joseph Thompson, who either acquired her from a sailor or brought her back himself from his travels, depending on which story you believe.
Wong Mau was at first thought to be a Siamese with a chocolate-colored coat. Such Siamese weren’t unheard of. “Chocolate Siamese” were described in the 1880s. Their bodies were tan or brown, and they had seal-brown or nearly black points. The seal-point Siamese, also known as royal Siamese, had lighter bodies that contrasted with their dark points and were preferred by breeders and the public.
The chocolate-colored cats eventually disappeared in Britain, but they still existed in Thailand and Burma (now known as Myanmar), where they were probably the offspring of natural (as opposed to human-directed) matings between free-roaming Siamese (pointed) and solid-colored Burmese cats. Wong Mau was one of them. It was her destiny to become the matriarch of two new breeds: the Burmese and, later, the Tonkinese.
Dr. Thompson bred Wong Mau to a seal-point Siamese named Tai Mau. His breeding program, in conjunction with breeders Virginia Cobb and Billie Gerst and geneticist Clyde Keeler, produced kittens with beige, brown and pointed coats. The results, including the discovery of the Burmese gene, were so interesting that Thompson published an article on the subject in a 1943 issue of the Journal of Heredity, the first such piece on feline genetics.
The Cat Fanciers Association began registering Burmese in 1936 but suspended registrations in 1947 because breeders were still using Siamese in their breeding programs. Registrations resumed in 1953 after the practice was stopped. Today the Burmese is a popular breed among cat lovers.
Burmese cats are typically of medium size and have a graceful, slender build. Adult Burmese cats usually weigh between 6 to 12 pounds on average.
The Burmese is energetic and friendly. He has the charm and determination of his Siamese ancestors, and enjoys conversation as much as that breed, but his voice is soft and sweet, belying his tendency to run the household with an iron paw sheathed in velvety fur. He is highly intelligent and seeks out human companionship, so he’s not best suited to a home where he will be left alone much of the day.
If no humans will be around to engage his intellect, be sure he has the company of another pet. He gets along well with other cats and with dogs, but of course another Burmese will be his best pal. The Burmese is about as curious as cats come. Expect him to explore your home thoroughly and know all of its nooks and crannies. He is playful and remains so into adulthood.
Tease his clever mind with interactive toys, and teach him tricks that will allow him to show off for an audience. Besides sit, roll over, wave and come, he can learn to fetch a small toy or walk on a leash. With proper early conditioning, car rides and vet visits will be a breeze.
A Burmese is a good choice if you don’t object to complete loss of privacy. This cat will want to be involved in everything you do, from reading the newspaper and working at the computer to preparing meals and watching television. He will, of course, sleep on the bed with you and may even snuggle under the covers. When you are sitting down, he will be in your lap or right next to you, waiting expectantly to be petted. You will be scolded if you ignore him. Guests will receive his full attention, and it is likely that he will win over even those who claim to dislike cats. A female Burmese is the very definition of queenliness. She likes attention and she likes to be in charge. Males are more restful, satisfied to fill a lap. Whichever you choose, it’s likely that you will soon find yourself yearning for another.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Burmese are generally healthy, although they can be prone to gingivitis and may be sensitive to anesthesia. The following diseases have also been seen in Burmese:
The soft, short coat of the Burmese is easily cared for with weekly brushing or combing to remove dead hair and distribute skin oil. A bath is rarely necessary. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Like all cats, Burmese are very particular about bathroom hygiene. It’s a good idea to keep a Burmese as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Burmese who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Burmese is often described as a “brick wrapped in silk,” a testament to his solid, muscular body. While the original Burmese was a dark solid-brown color known as sable, he now comes in other shades as well, including blue, champagne and platinum. The cats have a compact body with a rounded head; large, expressive eyes in gold or yellow; and medium-size ears that are rounded at the tips and tilt slightly forward.
The active and social Burmese is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He will play fetch as well as any retriever, learns tricks easily and loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect. He lives peacefully with cats and dogs who respect his authority. Always introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime.com’s dog breed page!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share

Height:
9–13 inches
Weight:
8–12 pounds
Lifespan:
20–25 years
Colors:
Brown, chocolate, blue, lilac, red, cream
Suitable for:
Laid-back and adaptable
Temperament:
Intelligent, affectionate, loyal, playful, gets along great with other pets
Who says that cats can’t be loving and affectionate? Certainly not anyone with a Burmese cat! These cats are known for their playful demeanor and even get referred to as dog-like! Owning this breed gives you the convenience of a cat with the temperament of a pup, making them extremely popular pets.
Even better, they live an extremely long time and don’t take up much space, so if you’re looking for a long-lived pet and don’t have a huge house, a Burmese cat might be just what you’ve been looking for.
But is the Burmese cat right for your home, and what do you need to do to care for them? We break down everything that you need to know about this interesting and adorable breed here.


A post shared by Питомник европейской бурмы (@burbon_cats)

Energy Trainability Health Lifespan Sociability 
What’s the Price of Burmese Kittens?
If you’re looking to purchase a Burmese kitten, you’re likely going to spend more than you would for most other types of cats. Prices for a Burmese kitten start at $600, but it’s not rare to see them going for as much as $1,000.
If you’re using a higher-end breeder, those costs can skyrocket. Think $1,200 for a standard color and $2,500 for a show-quality kitten with a rarer color.
While Burmese kittens might be more expensive than many other kittens, considering that they can live for up to 25 years, it’s not a completely unreasonable price.

3 Little-Known Facts About Burmese Cat
1. They Like to Meow.
While the Burmese cat might not be as vocal as their Siamese cousins, they’re far from quiet cats. If you’re looking for a quiet cat that won’t make much noise, the Burmese cat isn’t for you. Expect a deep meow that you’ll hear throughout the day.

2. Burmese Cats All Descend From Wong Mau.
It’s rare that we can track down any species to a single parent, but that’s precisely what we can do with the Burmese cat. A sailor brought back a cat from Burma, named Wong Mau, and bred them with a seal-point Siamese, and the Burmese cat was born.
Every Burmese cat in the world today is a descendant of Wong Mau, making it one of the most well-tracked lineages in the pet world.

3. Burmese Cats Are Prone to Separation Anxiety.
Cats have a reputation for needing less time with their owner than dogs. With the Burmese cat, though, that’s simply not the case. They’re prone to separation anxiety and need to spend large amounts of time with you every day.
Ensure that you have plenty of time to devote to your Burmese cat before you adopt one.
 Image Credit By: Seregraff, Shutterstock

Temperament & Intelligence of the Burmese Cat
The Burmese cat is an extremely intelligent, loyal, and playful cat. While they might not cuddle as much as some lap dogs, they’re far cuddlier than most cats. They also love to play and be the center of attention.
But while Burmese cats are playful and loving, you need to keep in mind that they need attention. If you don’t give them any, they can quickly turn ornery and participate in destructive boredom behaviors.
So, before you purchase a Burmese cat, ensure that you have enough time and attention to devote to them to keep them happy.
Finally, Burmese cats are incredibly trusting and warm up to people far quicker than most other cat breeds. You shouldn’t have to work hard to earn their affection, which means you can start bonding right away!
Are These Cats Good for Families? 👪
Burmese cats are great family cats. They get along with everyone in the family, regardless of age. Still, due to their smaller size, you should always supervise interactions with smaller kids.
Smaller kids can hurt your Burmese cat on accident, and to protect themselves, your Burmese cat might strike back. However, aggression is extremely rare in the breed, so the chances of you getting a mean Burmese cat is slim to none.
Does This Breed Get Along With Other Pets?
Burmese cats are extremely playful by nature, so as long as the other pets in your house enjoy playing too, you shouldn’t have any problems. However, this is typically only true for other cats, dogs, or larger pets.
Burmese cats still have predator instincts, so you need to keep them away from pet birds, fish, reptiles, rodents, or other small pets. But for large pets that your cat doesn’t view as prey, you shouldn’t have any issues with a Burmese cat.

Things to Know When Owning a Burmese Cat
Before you head out and purchase a Burmese cat, there are a few basic care requirements that you should be aware of. From their diet to potential health conditions, we break down everything that you need to know here.
Food & Diet Requirements 🐡
Due to their smaller size, a Burmese cat doesn’t need to eat a ton of food each day. Smaller Burmese cats are fine with a ½ cup of high-quality dry cat food each day, while a larger Burmese needs closer to ¾ cup of food.
You can also feel free to feed them wet foods and supplement with treats throughout the day. If you go with a high-quality food, you should be able to spend around $30 a month to feed your cat and give them everything that they need to thrive and stay healthy.
If you’re looking to purchase a Burmese kitten, you’re likely going to spend more than you would for most other types of cats. Prices for a Burmese kitten start at $600, but it’s not rare to see them going for as much as $1,000.
If you’re using a higher-end breeder, those costs can skyrocket. Think $1,200 for a standard color and $2,500 for a show-quality kitten with a rarer color.
While Burmese kittens might be more expensive than many other kittens, considering that they can live for up to 25 years, it’s not a completely unreasonable price.

While the Burmese cat might not be as vocal as their Siamese cousins, they’re far from quiet cats. If you’re looking for a quiet cat that won’t make much noise, the Burmese cat isn’t for you. Expect a deep meow that you’ll hear throughout the day.
It’s rare that we can track down any species to a single parent, but that’s precisely what we can do with the Burmese cat. A sailor brought back a cat from Burma, named Wong Mau, and bred them with a seal-point Siamese, and the Burmese cat was born.
Every Burmese cat in the world today is a descendant of Wong Mau, making it one of the most well-tracked lineages in the pet world.
Cats have a reputation for needing less time with their owner than dogs. With the Burmese cat, though, that’s simply not the case. They’re prone to separation anxiety and need to spend large amounts of time with you every day.
Ensure that you have plenty of time to devote to your Burmese cat before you adopt one.

The Burmese cat is an extremely intelligent, loyal, and playful cat. While they might not cuddle as much as some lap dogs, they’re far cuddlier than most cats. They also love to play and be the center of attention.
But while Burmese cats are playful and loving, you need to keep in mind that they need attention. If you don’t give them any, they can quickly turn ornery and participate in destructive boredom behaviors.
So, before you purchase a Burmese cat, ensure that you have enough time and attention to devote to them to keep them happy.
Finally, Burmese cats are incredibly trusting and warm up to people far quicker than most other cat breeds. You shouldn’t have to work hard to earn their affection, which means you can start bonding right away!
Burmese cats are great family cats. They get along with everyone in the family, regardless of age. Still, due to their smaller size, you should always supervise interactions with smaller kids.
Smaller kids can hurt your Burmese cat on accident, and to protect themselves, your Burmese cat might strike back. However, aggression is extremely rare in the breed, so the chances of you getting a mean Burmese cat is slim to none.
Burmese cats are extremely playful by nature, so as long as the other pets in your house enjoy playing too, you shouldn’t have any problems. However, this is typically only true for other cats, dogs, or larger pets.
Burmese cats still have predator instincts, so you need to keep them away from pet birds, fish, reptiles, rodents, or other small pets. But for large pets that your cat doesn’t view as prey, you shouldn’t have any issues with a Burmese cat.

Before you head out and purchase a Burmese cat, there are a few basic care requirements that you should be aware of. From their diet to potential health conditions, we break down everything that you need to know here.
Due to their smaller size, a Burmese cat doesn’t need to eat a ton of food each day. Smaller Burmese cats are fine with a ½ cup of high-quality dry cat food each day, while a larger Burmese needs closer to ¾ cup of food.
You can also feel free to feed them wet foods and supplement with treats throughout the day. If you go with a high-quality food, you should be able to spend around $30 a month to feed your cat and give them everything that they need to thrive and stay healthy.

A post shared by Coco & Bonnie (@highwayofcats)

Just because you’re not taking your cat out for walks doesn’t mean they don’t need exercise. You need to ensure that they have plenty of areas to climb, and you should actively play with them to help them meet their exercise needs.
Laser pointers are a great tool that gets your cat moving, but there are plenty of interactive cat toys that can do the trick too. Don’t be too shy to get on your cat’s level and play with them that way! Any way that you can get your cat moving is a great thing to keep them happy and healthy.
While you’re likely never going to train your cat to do a bunch of cool tricks, when it comes to training them to do the basics, it’s relatively easy. Litterbox training with a Burmese cat is usually a breeze, as is getting them to stop scratching at things that they shouldn’t.
The best tool that you have is redirection and showing them where they’re supposed to exhibit certain behaviors. Don’t yell at them or make a big deal about accidents in the wrong part of the house or if they start to scratch at something that they shouldn’t.
This can make them feel like they have to hide the behavior from you. Instead of seeking out the right area to do it, they’ll just try to find a spot that you can’t see them and do it, anyway.
While the Burmese cat doesn’t have the most demanding grooming schedule, there are a few things that you need to keep up with. Start by brushing them weekly. This will help keep shedding under control, keep hairballs at bay, and keep their fur from matting.
Furthermore, brush their teeth a few times a week to keep tartar from building up and preserve good oral hygiene. While it might be a little frustrating to brush your feline friend’s teeth, it can end up saving you thousands of dollars in future vet bills.
While the Burmese cat breed is relatively healthy, that doesn’t mean there aren’t a few concerns that you need to look out for. Always check a breeder’s references, take a look at the parent’s health history, and get a guarantee on your kitten’s health.
If your Burmese cat starts to display any of these symptoms, take them to a vet as soon as possible to see what you can do.

While there are not that many differences between a male and a female Burmese cat, there are a few that you should be aware of. First, male cats tend to get much larger than females.
This means if you’re getting a purebred Burmese cat, a male is more likely to push 13 inches in height and 12 pounds in weight, while a female is more likely to be 9 inches tall and weigh 8 pounds.
Another difference often comes down to their temperament. Males tend to be friendly and need more attention than females. While a female Burmese should still be friendly, they likely won’t want as many cuddles or need you around quite as much.
Of course, your cat’s individual personality has a part to play in this too, so don’t be too surprised if your cat doesn’t fit their stereotypical sex personality.
Finally, until you neuter a male cat, they are far more likely to spray to mark their territory and try to get out and find a mate. Once you neuter them, this usually isn’t a concern.

If you’re looking for a cuddly cat with a long lifespan, the Burmese cat can be an excellent choice for your home. But if you’re looking for a prototypical cat that sleeps all day and only wants attention every now and then, the Burmese cat isn’t what you’re looking for.
With their friendly demeanor toward pretty much everyone, the Burmese cat is an excellent choice for families and those who want a cuddly companion but have a smaller living space!
Featured Image Credit: Ivanova N, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
4 Homemade Grain-Free Cat Treat Recipes (Vet Approved)
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Sign up to our newsletter and be the first to find out about new arrivals, exclusive promos and helpful cat-related tips
by signing up to our newsletter you are agreeing to our privacy policy
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Dogs
Cats
Info
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
