LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Thinking of owning a Cairn Terrier and would like to know if Cairn Terriers are safe with cats?
Find out all about Cairn Terrier cat friendliness and how to make your Cairn Terrier friendlier with kittens on this page.



A common error a lot of individuals make is thinking that all pets dislike felines and vice versa. This isn’t real and there are lots of pet breeds that get along with cats. Dogs that aren’t naturally cat friendly can likewise be trained to be much safer around felines.
According to professional Cairn Terrier dog experts, Cairn Terrier dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of dog breeds that are cat friendly.



No matter the misunderstanding, a great deal of dogs and felines can live together in harmony. Follow these simple to follow steps to find out how to best introduce your Cairn Terrier with a feline.


Not all Cairn Terriers dislike cats, some get along with them. When Cairn Terriers do hate felines, of the most typical factor is quite straightforward. Like all canines, Cairn Terriers still keep a few of the hunting tendencies that they were initially bred for. This is why Cairn Terriers like chasing after all moving items, whether it’s a toy, mouse, or a cat.
Since the majority of felines will run away when they come across, it’s easy to see why they are known for not being friendly with each other. Cairn Terriers in fact delight in chasing felines not since they hate them, but mainly because a fast running animal triggers a powerful, natural reaction to chase after overcomes any training or socialisation.


Training your Cairn Terrier to quit chasing after felines takes some time, training and consistency, however the reward of not needing to worry about them continually chasing after is well worth it. Here are the phases of how to stop your Cairn Terrier from chasing after cats.


The best method to guarantee your Cairn Terrier would never ever kill a feline is to raise them with cats when they’re a pup prior to 3 months old. At this age, they will generally wish to have fun with the cats and won’t see them as prey.
If your Cairn Terrier has killed a feline before, its ideal if you keep them in an open, fenced off space. When taking them for strolls try to avoid going after sunset and prior to dawn because that’s when cats are most active and most likely to be wandering the streets.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Cairn Terrier originated in the Highlands of Scotland, and the Isle of Skye in particular. The breed has been recognized since the 1600s and was one of Scotland's original terrier breeds. Their primary purpose was to assist farmers by hunting and chasing away vermin, foxes, and other small predators from cairns, which are piles of stones that serve as fences or boundaries on Scottish farms—thus, the breed's name.

These small, hardy dogs were bred for their working ability rather than their appearance. It was not until the early 20th century that the Cairn Terrier began to be bred as a separate breed from the other Scottish terriers.
Cairn Terriers can suffer from atopic dermatitis, base-narrow canines, cataracts, chondrodysplasia, chromatolytic neuronal degeneration, chronic inflammatory hepatic disease, cleft lip/palate, craniomandibular osteopathy, cryptorchidism, diabetes mellitus, ectopic ureters, elbow dysplasia, factor IX deficiency (hemophilia B), gallbladder mucocele, glaucoma, globoid cell leukodystrophy, hemivertebra (tail), hip dysplasia, hydrocephalus, hyperadrenocorticism, hypothyroidism, immune-mediated hemolytic anemia, Legg–Calvé–Perthes disease, macrothrombocytopenia, malocclusion, mitral valve disease, ocular melanosis, pancreatitis, patellar luxation, persistent hyaloid artery, persistent pupillary membranes, polycystic liver disease, portal vein hypoplasia, portosystemic shunts, progressive retinal atrophy, pulmonary fibrosis, pyruvate kinase deficiency, renal dysplasia, retinal dysplasia, seborrhea, sertoli cell tumor, spinal muscular atrophy, urolithiasis (calcium oxalate), vitamin A-responsive dermatosis, von Willebrand disease type I, and wry mouth. The Cairn Terrier breed club recommends patella and ophthalmologist evaluations, cardiac exams, kidney aplasia/dysplasia tests and evaluate for globoid cell leukodystrophy (DNA tests), portosystemic vascular anomalies and microvascular dysplasia. Genetic testing is recommended, including for the following additional conditions: hyperuricosoria, degenerative myelopathy, and progressive rod-cone degeneration.
Cairn Terriers are renowned for their cheerful and assertive nature. They are known to be intelligent, curious, and often have a mischievous streak. Despite their small size, they are sturdy, brave, and love to play, making them excellent companions for children.These dogs are very affectionate with their families but may be wary of strangers. They are known to be good watchdogs, and despite their size, they won't hesitate to protect their homes.Cairn Terriers have a strong hunting instinct and enjoy outdoor games and exploring. They are independent and may show stubbornness, so consistent, positive training methods work best for this breed. Despite their independent nature, they are quite trainable and can excel in various dog sports, including obedience, agility, and tracking.Cairn Terriers are energetic and need regular exercise to keep them healthy and prevent boredom. Without proper stimulation, they can become destructive.
The Cairn Terrier breed was officially recognized by the American Kennel Club (AKC) in 1913.According to the AKC, Cairns have unique qualities that are collectively referred to as "Cairnishness". These include a short, wide head, and a free-moving, short-legged body that display strength but not heaviness.A Cairn Terrier named Terry became famous for her role as Toto, Dorothy's faithful companion, in the 1939 film "The Wizard of Oz," which significantly increased the breed's popularity in the United States
Doi:10.1002/9781119540687  https://www.ukcdogs.com/cairn-terrier   https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/cairn-terrier/  https://www.fci.be/en/nomenclature/CAIRN-TERRIER-4.htmlhttps://www.petmd.com/dog/breeds/c_dg_cairn_terrierhttps://www.pawprintgenetics.com/products/breeds/46/
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
Cairn Terriers boast a Scottish ancestry and are known for being lively game little dog with a very distinct shaggy coat which is never scruffy looking. At one time they were highly prized for their hunting skills but today these charming dogs are popular both as family pets and companions thanks to their mischievous looks and their devotion to their owners.
Cairn Terriers thrive on being around people and are highly adaptable dogs by nature fitting in comfortably to most lifestyles with the greatest of ease. There is nothing these little dogs like more than to be part of a family and to be involved in everything that goes on in a household. With this said like most terriers the Cairn likes to be kept busy both mentally and physically enjoying nothing more than being out and about doing something. Cairn Terriers also boast having a high prey drive and will happily chase any animal that tries to run away.
Originally bred to hunt vermin foxes and rodents the Cairn Terrier has always been highly prized for their willingness to please. The actual origin of the breed remains unknown but it's thought they are descendants of native working terriers that were used both in the Scottish Highlands and Islands. There are some references to Cairn Terriers that date back to the 16th century when the King of France was sent some "Earth Dogges" by King James I and then later James VI sent some over to the continent too.
Scottish shepherds crofters and hunters would use these terriers to control vermin hunt rabbits and foxes but by the 18th and 19th centuries they were used to hunt badgers and otters because they were considered vermin at the time. These terriers were prized for their courage and "gameness" and they fact they had the ability to ignore any pain when tackling their prey. At the time these terriers varied greatly in colour size and shape from region to region because they were specifically bred to work on different and often challenging terrains and to hunt different types of prey.
Other terriers that were around at the time which included the Scottish Skye and West Highland White were the most recognised breeds during the nineteenth century while the little Cairn remained pretty much unknown other than in the areas of Scotland where they were most commonly bred to hunt. By the 20th century enthusiasts and breeders pushed for the Kennel Club to recognise the Cairn Terrier as a breed but at the time nobody could agree on what to call these dogs. Sometimes they were called "short-coated Skyes" or they were often referred to as "Prick-eared Skyes". One of the most important breed enthusiasts at the time was a lady called Mrs. Campbell who called her Cairns "short-coated Skyes" or "prick-eared Skyes".
It was not until 1910 that the Kennel Club accepted the breed and they were given their name Cairn Terrier. That same year the official Cairn Club was established with just 54 members. Today the Cairn Terrier is known the world over with more than twenty breed clubs worldwide and enthusiasts who do their best to maintain the same breed standard that was so highly prized by the early enthusiasts in times long past and has consistently remained one of the more popular companions and family pets right up until modern times.
Height at the withers: Males 23 - 33 cm Females 23 - 33 cm
Average weight: Males 4.5 - 6.8 kg Females 4.5 - 6.8 kg
When it comes to their coat the Cairn Terrier boasts a very weather-resistant double coat which is especially important for the breed. The outer coat being rough but never coarse. Their undercoat is softer short and it lies close to a dog's body. A Cairn Terrier can have a slight wave in their coat which is permissible. These little terriers come in a variety of colours which includes the following:
Dogs can have a little brindle in their coats and they often have darker points on their muzzles and ears which is also acceptable as a breed standard. It is also worth noting that a Cairn Terrier's coat often changes colour during their lifetimes.
When a Cairn Terrier moves they do so with a nice free-flowing movement with their front lets reaching forward as they do. They have a lot of propulsion in their hindquarters and a dog's hocks should neither be too close together or too far apart.
The Kennel Club frowns on any exaggerations or departures from the breed standard and would judge the faults on how much they affect a dog's overall health and wellbeing as well as their ability to perform.
Males should have both testicles fully descended into their scrotums and it is worth noting that a dog can be a little lighter or heavier as well as slightly taller or shorter than set out in the Kennel Club breed standard which is given as a guideline only.
The Cairn Terrier is known to be a very "game" little dog that boasts a happy yet fearless disposition. They rarely show any aggression and they are very confident characters. Like many of their terrier cousins they are intelligent dogs which makes them easy to train when handled correctly. However they are extremely quick off the mark which means they are masters when it comes to getting into a bit mischief without an owner ever catching then in the act a trait these terriers are renowned for.
With this said a Cairn Terrier's training and education needs to start early and it's a good idea to enrol them into obedience classes as soon as they have had all their vaccinations. These little dogs love taking part in all sorts of canine sporting activities and excel at many of them. The thing to bear in mind is that it is never a good idea to get a young Cairn Terrier jumping up because they could end up damaging their backs their joints and ligaments when they do and this could make life very uncomfortable later in their adult life.
They are a great choice for first time owners but only if they have enough time to spend with their dogs. Cairn Terriers thrive on being around people and do not do well when left to their own devices for long periods of time. They would not be a good choice for people who spend most the day out of the house leaving their pets alone in the home. This could lead to a Cairn Terrier developing some behavioural issues which includes them suffering from separation anxiety. It may well lead to a Cairn being destructive around the home and they may even injure themselves.
With this said the Cairn Terrier is a brilliant choice for people who work from home and families who spend all their free time in the great outdoors with their canine companion in tow. These little terriers also like to be able to roam around a garden bearing in mind that like a lot of other terriers the fencing must be extremely secure because these little dogs are highly skilled at finding any weaknesses in a fence and will escape if they find they can.
Cairn Terriers are a good choice for first time dog owners providing they have the time to dedicate to an intelligent active canine companion who thrives on human company. They are particularly good around children and older people although playtime can be a bit boisterous at times.
The Cairn Terrier is a "terrier" and therefore boasts a very high prey drive and will happily chase anything that moves. With this said if they grow up with a family cat in the home they generally get on well together but this is not to say a Cairn Terrier would not chase the cat from next door whenever they get the chance to. As such care should always be taken as to where a Cairn can run free off the lead and extra care must be taken when they meet any animal or pet they have never met before.
Cairn Terriers have a very playful and mischievous side to their natures and love to entertain and be entertained. They are renowned for testing the "limits" just for the fun of it and to see how much they can get away with. They adore playing interactive games with the kids and are particularly gentle when they do although a Cairn will run off with the ball or toy and not want to give it back when the mood takes them.
Cairn Terriers are highly adaptable dogs and providing they are given enough daily physical exercise combined with as much mental stimulation as possible to prevent boredom from setting in they are just as happy living in an apartment in town as they are living in a house in the country. However like many other terriers and dogs Cairns love to be able to roam around a secure back garden whenever they can so they can really let of steam.
Cairn Terriers form strong ties with their families and dogs are never very happy when they find themselves left on their own for longer periods of time. They are better suited to people who either work from home or in households where one person stays at home when everyone else is out so they are never alone for any length of time which could see a dog suffering from separation anxiety. This can lead to them being destructive around the home which is a dog's way of relieving any stress they are feeling and a way to keep themselves entertained which includes barking incessantly to get attention.
Cairn Terriers are known to like the sound of their own voices a little too much which is something that needs to be gently nipped in the bud when a dog is still young being careful not to frighten them. However there is never any guarantee that a Cairn would not continue to bark for the sake of it and when they think they have cornered their prey somewhere in a back garden.
Most Cairns enjoy swimming and will take to the water whenever they can more especially when the weather is hot. However if anyone who owns a dog that does not like water should never force them to go in because it would just end up scaring them. With this said care should always be taken when walking a Cairn Terrier off the lead anywhere near more dangerous watercourses just in case a dog decides to leap in and then needs rescuing because they cannot get out of the water on their own.
Cairn Terrier make for very good watchdogs and are always quick off the mark to let an owner know when there are strangers about or when something they don't like is going on in their environment. The problem is that a lot of Cairns bark for the sake of it which means it can be hard for an owner to know when there is something wrong or when strangers are about and when there is not.
Although intelligent little dogs the Cairn Terrier can be stubborn at times thanks to their quite independent natures. Their training needs to start as early as possible and they need to be handled with a firm yet gentle hand from a young age so they learn all the ground rules. Once a puppy has been fully vaccinated it's a good idea to enrol them into an obedience class which would pay dividends later with the added bonus being that Cairn Terriers really enjoy taking part in these classes.
Because Cairn Terrier puppies are incredibly cute it is all too easy to spoil them when they first arrive in their new homes. However new owners need to start out as they mean to go on which means setting out ground rules and teaching a puppy what is acceptable behaviour and what is not. All dogs are much better behaved when they know what their owners expect of them and who is the alpha dog in a household. As such the first commands a Cairn Terrier should be taught right from the word go are as follows:
The Cairn Terrier is a great choice as a family pet because they seem to have an affinity with children and love nothing more than to be around them. However whenever children and dogs get together it’s best for it to happen when there is an adult around just in case things get too boisterous and out of hand.
Generally they are good around other pets but being terriers they should not be left alone with small pets and this includes cats. With this said it pays for Cairn Terriers to be introduced to any pets and other animals they will be sharing a home with from an early age and care should be taken whenever they meet any other small animals and pets.
The average life expectancy of a Cairn Terrier is between 12 and 17 years when properly cared for and fed an appropriate good quality diet to suit their ages.
Cairn Terriers are known to be healthy and robust little dogs but like so many other pure breeds they are prone to suffer from certain hereditary health issues which are worth knowing about if you are hoping to share your home with one of these energetic little terriers. The health issues that seem to most affect the breed include the following:
Fortunately optic nerve hypoplasia is an eye disorder that is less frequently seen in Cairn Terriers. The problem is due to a dog's optic nerve being malformed at birth hence the condition is congenital. Either one eye can be affected or both which makes it a unilateral or bilateral condition. When only one eye is affected a Cairn Terrier's vision will not be too badly affected. However if the condition affects both of a dog's eyes they typically lose their sight. Any Cairn Terrier suffering from optic nerve hypoplasia should be spayed or neutered and not used for breeding purposes.
Cairn Terrier puppies would have been given their initial vaccinations before being sold but it is up to their new owners to make sure they have their follow-up shots in a timely manner with the vaccination schedule for puppies being as follows:
10 -12 weeks old bearing in mind that a puppy would not have full protection straight away but would be fully protected 2 weeks after they have had their second vaccination
There has been a lot of discussion about the need for dogs to have boosters. As such it's best to talk to a vet before making a final decision on whether a dog should continue to have annual vaccinations which are known as boosters.
A lot of vets these days recommend waiting until dogs are slightly older before spaying and neutering them which means they are more mature before undergoing the procedures. As such they advise neutering males and spaying females when they are between the ages of 6 to 9 months old and sometimes even when a dog is 12 months old.
Other vets recommend spaying and neutering dogs when they are 6 months old but never any earlier unless for medical reasons. With this said many breeds are different and it is always advisable to discuss things with a vet and then follow their advice on when a dog should be spayed or neutered.
Some Cairn Terriers gain weight after they have been spayed or neutered and it's important to keep an eye on a dog's waistline just in case they do. If a dog starts to put on weight it's important to adjust their daily calorie intake and to up the amount of exercise they are given. Older dogs too are more prone to gaining weight and again it's essential they be fed and exercised accordingly because obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years. The reason being that it puts a lot of extra strain on a dog's internal organs including the heart which can prove fatal.
Some Cairn Terriers are prone to suffering from allergies and it's important for a dog to see a vet sooner rather than later if one flares up. Allergies can be notoriously hard to clear up and finding the triggers can be challenging. With this said a vet would be able to make a dog with an allergy more comfortable while they try to find out the triggers which could include the following:
All responsible Cairn Terrier breeders would ensure that their stud dogs are tested for known hereditary and congenital health issues known to affect the breed by using the following schemes:
Apart from the standard breeding restrictions set out by the Kennel Club for all registered breeds there are no other breed specific breeding restrictions in place for the Cairn Terrier.
The Kennel Club strongly recommends that all Cairn Terrier breeders use the schemes available before using a dog in a breeding programme:
As with any other breed Cairn Terriers need to be groomed on a regular basis to make sure their coats and skin are kept in top condition. They also need to be given regular daily exercise to ensure they remain fit and healthy. On top of this they need to be fed good quality food that meets all their nutritional needs throughout their lives.
It's best to pick a puppy up when people are going to be around for the first week or so which is the time needed for a puppy to settle in. Puppy-proofing the home and garden means putting away any tools and other implements that a boisterous puppy might injure themselves on. Electric wires and cables must be put out of their reach because puppies love chewing on things. Toxic plants should be removed from flowerbeds and the home too.
Puppies need to sleep a lot to grow and develop as they should which means setting up a quiet area that's not too out of the way means they can retreat to it when they want to nap and it's important not to disturb them when they are sleeping. It's also a good idea to keep "playtime" nice and calm inside the house and to have a more active "playtime" outside in the garden which means puppies quickly learn to be less boisterous when they are inside.
The documentation a breeder provides for a puppy must have all the details of their worming date and the product used as well as the information relating to their microchip. It is essential for puppies to be wormed again keeping to a schedule which is as follows:
There are certain items that new owners need to already have in the home prior to bringing a new puppy home. It's often a good idea to restrict how much space a puppy plays in more especially when you can't keep an eye on what they get up to bearing in mind that puppies are often quite boisterous which means investing in puppy gates or a large enough playpen that allows a Cairn puppy the room to express themselves while keeping them safe too. The items needed are therefore as follows:
All puppies are sensitive to noise including Cairn Terrier puppies. It's important to keep the noise levels down when a new puppy arrives in the home. TVs and music should not be played too loud which could end up stressing a small puppy out.
As previously mentioned Cairn Terrier puppies would have been given their first vaccinations by the breeders but they must have their follow up shots which is up to their new owners to organise. The vaccination schedule for puppies is as follows:
When it comes to boosters it's best to discuss these with a vet because there is a lot of debate about whether a dog really needs them after a certain time. However if a dog ever needed to go into kennels their vaccinations would need to be
Older Cairn Terriers need lots of special care because as they reach their golden years they are more at risk of developing certain health concerns. Physically a dog's muzzle may start to go grey but there will be other noticeable changes too which includes the following:
Living with a Cairn Terrier in their golden years means taking on a few more responsibilities but these are easily managed and should include looking at their diet the amount of exercise they are given how often their dog beds need changing and keeping an eye on the condition of their teeth.
Older Cairn Terriers need to be fed a good quality diet that meets their needs at this stage of their lives all the while keeping a close eye on a dog's weight. A rough feeding guide for older dogs is as follows bearing in mind they should be fed highly digestible food that does not contain any additives:
Older Cairns don't need to be given the same amount of daily exercise as a younger dog but they still need the right amount of physical activity to maintain muscle tone and to prevent a dog from putting on too much weight. All dogs need access to fresh clean water and this is especially true of older dogs when they reach their golden years because they are more at risk of developing kidney disorders.
Cairn Terriers need to be given a quick brush over every day to keep their coats tangle-free and this is especially true during the winter when they get a little muddier. Their coat is quite harsh although not too coarse so it pays to take them along to a professional groomer to have it hand stripped at least 2 to 3 times a year. Like other breeds the Cairn Terrier tends to shed more during the Spring and then again in the Autumn which is when more frequent brushing would be necessary to keep on top of things.
It's also a good idea to check a Cairn’s ears on a regular basis to ensure no dirt or debris has got lodged in them which could lead to an infection taking hold. This type of infection can be notoriously hard to treat once it flares up.
Cairn Terriers are high-energy characters and they like to be kept busy both physically and mentally bearing in mind that many of them have very low boredom thresholds. Ideally they need to be given at minimum of one hour's vigorous exercise every day and they live in a house that boasts a very secure garden these terriers like nothing more than to spend time outside letting off steam as often as possible during the day. It is worth noting that Cairns are notorious for digging up lawns and flower beds just for the fun of it.
It's important to keep these terriers mentally stimulated as a way of preventing boredom from setting in which could lead to a dog finding their own ways of amusing themselves. This is often manifested in some unwanted behaviours which includes digging and being destructive around the home.
If you get a Cairn Terrier puppy from a breeder they would give you a feeding schedule and it's important to stick to the same routine feeding the same puppy food to avoid any tummy upsets. You can change a puppy's diet but this needs to be done very gradually always making sure they don't develop any digestive upsets and if they do it's best to put them back on their original diet and to discuss things with the vet before attempting to change it again.
Older dogs are not known to be fussy or finicky eaters but this does not mean you can feed them a lower quality diet. It's best to feed a mature Cairn Terrier twice a day once in the morning and then again in the evening making sure it's good quality food that meets all their nutritional requirements. It's also important that dogs be given the right amount of exercise so they burn off any excess calories or they might gain too much weight which can lead to all sorts of health issues. Obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years so it's important to keep an eye on their waistline from the word go.
Puppies need to be fed a highly nutritious good quality diet for them to develop and grow as they should. As a rough guide a Cairn Terrier puppy can be fed the following amounts every day making sure their meals are evenly spread out throughout the day and it's best to feed them 3 or 4 times a day:
Once a puppy is 11 months old they can be fed adult dog food.
Once fully mature an adult Cairn Terrier must be fed a good quality diet to ensure their continued good health. As a rough guide an adult Cairn Terrier can be fed the following amounts every day:
If you are looking to buy a Cairn Terrier you would need to pay anything from £400 to over £500 for a well-bred pedigree puppy. The cost of insuring a male 3-year-old Cairn Terrier in northern England would be £18.32 a month for basic cover but for a lifetime policy this would set you back £41.78 a month (quote as of November 2017). When insurance companies calculate a pet's premium they factor in several things which includes where you live in the UK and a dog's age and whether they have been neutered or spayed.
When it comes to food costs you need to buy the best quality food whether wet or dry to feed your dog throughout their lives making sure it suits the different stages of their lives. This would set you back between £35 - £50 a month. On top of this you would need to factor in veterinary costs if you want to share your home with a Cairn Terrier and this includes their initial vaccinations their annual boosters the cost of neutering or spaying your dog when the time is right and their yearly health checks all of which quickly adds up to over a £1000 a year.
As a rough guide the average cost to keep and care for a Cairn Terrier would be between £65 to £100 a month depending on the level of insurance cover you opt to buy for your dog but this does not include the initial cost of buying a well-bred healthy Kennel Club registered pedigree Cairn Terrier puppy.
When visiting and buying any puppy or dog there are many important things to consider and questions to ask of the breeder/seller. You can read our generic puppy/dog advice here which includes making sure you see the puppy with its mother and to verify that the dog has been wormed and microchipped.
Cairn Terriers have consistently remained a popular breed both in the UK and elsewhere in the world which means that well-bred healthy puppies can command a lot of money. As such with Cairn Terriers there is specific advice questions and protocols to follow when buying a puppy which are as follows:
--------------------------------------------------
Cairn Terriers are a popular breed known for their spunky personalities and adorable looks. These dogs are often described as fearless, intelligent, and loyal, making them great companions for families and individuals alike. While Cairn Terriers are typically known for their interactions with humans, many people wonder how they get along with other pets, particularly cats.
Cats are known for their independent nature and can be quite picky about their furry companions. When it comes to Cairn Terriers, their compatibility with cats can vary depending on the individual personalities of both pets. Some Cairn Terriers may get along well with cats, while others may not be as friendly towards their feline counterparts.
In this article, we will explore the relationship between Cairn Terriers and cats, highlighting interesting trends, common concerns, and expert insights on the topic.
Trends:
1. Increasing Popularity of Cairn Terriers as Family Pets: Cairn Terriers have been gaining popularity as family pets in recent years due to their friendly and playful nature. Many families are opting for Cairn Terriers as their furry companions, leading to an increase in the number of households with both Cairn Terriers and cats.
2. Growing Interest in Multi-Pet households: With the rise of pet ownership, more people are opting to have multiple pets in their homes. This trend has led to an increase in households with both Cairn Terriers and cats, raising questions about their compatibility and interactions.
3. Social Media Influence: Social media platforms have played a significant role in showcasing the relationships between Cairn Terriers and cats. Many pet owners share heartwarming stories and adorable photos of their Cairn Terriers and cats getting along, influencing others to consider adding both pets to their households.
4. Training and Socialization: Pet owners are increasingly investing time and effort into training and socializing their Cairn Terriers and cats to ensure a harmonious relationship. Training classes and resources are becoming more popular among pet owners looking to introduce new pets into their homes.
5. Adoption and Rescue: The trend of adopting pets from shelters and rescue organizations has led to more Cairn Terriers and cats finding loving homes together. Many pet owners are choosing to adopt both pets simultaneously, emphasizing the importance of compatibility and proper introductions.
6. Health and Wellness: Pet owners are becoming more conscious of their pets' health and wellness, leading to a focus on providing proper nutrition, exercise, and veterinary care for both Cairn Terriers and cats. This trend highlights the need for a holistic approach to pet care in multi-pet households.
7. Pet-Friendly Living Spaces: As more people choose to have Cairn Terriers and cats as pets, there has been a growing demand for pet-friendly living spaces. Pet owners are seeking accommodations and amenities that cater to the needs of both pets, creating a more welcoming environment for their furry companions.
Expert Insights:
“A successful relationship between a Cairn Terrier and a cat depends on the individual personalities of both pets. It is essential to introduce them gradually and supervise their interactions to ensure a positive experience for both parties.” – Animal Behaviorist
“Proper training and socialization are key factors in fostering a harmonious relationship between Cairn Terriers and cats. Consistent positive reinforcement and patience are essential in helping both pets adapt to each other's presence.” – Veterinarian
“Understanding the body language and behavior of Cairn Terriers and cats is crucial in promoting a peaceful coexistence. Pet owners should be observant and responsive to their pets' cues to prevent conflicts and promote a bond between them.” – Pet Trainer
“Creating a safe and comfortable environment for both pets is essential in facilitating a successful relationship. Providing separate spaces for rest and play, as well as opportunities for socialization, can help Cairn Terriers and cats coexist harmoniously.” – Animal Welfare Expert
Common Concerns and Answers:
1. Will my Cairn Terrier get along with my cat?
– While some Cairn Terriers may get along well with cats, others may not be as friendly. It is essential to introduce them gradually and supervise their interactions to gauge their compatibility.
2. How can I help my Cairn Terrier and cat bond?
– Patience, positive reinforcement, and creating a safe environment are key in helping Cairn Terriers and cats bond. Providing opportunities for socialization and play can also strengthen their relationship.
3. What if my Cairn Terrier chases my cat?
– Cairn Terriers have a natural prey drive, so it is not uncommon for them to chase cats. Training and redirection techniques can help discourage this behavior and promote a peaceful coexistence.
4. Can Cairn Terriers and cats live together peacefully?
– With proper introductions, training, and supervision, Cairn Terriers and cats can live together peacefully. It is important to respect their individual boundaries and provide ample opportunities for them to coexist harmoniously.
5. How do I prevent conflicts between my Cairn Terrier and cat?
– Understanding their body language, behavior, and needs is crucial in preventing conflicts between Cairn Terriers and cats. Providing separate spaces, toys, and attention can help minimize tension and promote a positive relationship.
6. What if my Cairn Terrier and cat don't get along?
– If your Cairn Terrier and cat do not get along, it is important to seek guidance from a professional, such as a veterinarian or animal behaviorist. They can offer advice on how to address conflicts and improve their relationship.
7. Should I adopt a Cairn Terrier and cat together?
– Adopting a Cairn Terrier and cat together can be a great idea if both pets have been properly introduced and get along well. It is essential to consider their individual personalities and needs before making this decision.
8. How can I socialize my Cairn Terrier and cat?
– Socializing your Cairn Terrier and cat involves gradual introductions, positive reinforcement, and supervised interactions. Providing opportunities for play, exercise, and bonding can help them become comfortable with each other.
9. Can Cairn Terriers and cats share the same living space?
– Cairn Terriers and cats can share the same living space if proper introductions and boundaries are established. Providing separate areas for rest, food, and play can help minimize conflicts and promote a peaceful coexistence.
10. What if my Cairn Terrier is too rough with my cat?
– Cairn Terriers can be energetic and playful, which may be overwhelming for cats. Monitoring their interactions, setting boundaries, and redirecting their behavior can help prevent your Cairn Terrier from being too rough with your cat.
11. How do I introduce my Cairn Terrier to my cat?
– Introducing your Cairn Terrier to your cat should be done gradually and in a controlled environment. Using positive reinforcement, treats, and supervision can help ease their initial interactions and build a positive relationship.
12. Can Cairn Terriers and cats be trained to get along?
– Cairn Terriers and cats can be trained to get along through positive reinforcement, patience, and consistency. Training classes, guidance from professionals, and socialization can help improve their relationship over time.
13. What if my Cairn Terrier and cat fight?
– If your Cairn Terrier and cat engage in aggressive behavior or fights, it is important to intervene immediately and seek advice from a professional. Understanding the root cause of their conflicts and addressing it can help prevent further aggression.
14. How can I create a harmonious environment for my Cairn Terrier and cat?
– Creating a harmonious environment for your Cairn Terrier and cat involves providing separate spaces, toys, and resources for each pet. Establishing routines, boundaries, and positive interactions can help promote a peaceful coexistence.
15. What if my Cairn Terrier and cat ignore each other?
– If your Cairn Terrier and cat ignore each other, it is important to encourage positive interactions and bonding activities. Providing opportunities for play, grooming, and sharing attention can help strengthen their relationship over time.
In conclusion, Cairn Terriers and cats can coexist harmoniously with proper introductions, training, and supervision. Understanding their individual personalities, needs, and behaviors is key in fostering a positive relationship between these furry companions. By creating a safe and welcoming environment, providing opportunities for socialization, and seeking guidance from professionals, pet owners can help their Cairn Terriers and cats live together peacefully. Whether they are playing, cuddling, or simply sharing space, Cairn Terriers and cats can form a unique bond that enriches the lives of both pets and their owners.
--------------------------------------------------
The brave and fearless Cairn Terrier is the oldest of the working terriers originating from Scotland. Originally bred to hunt rabbits and vermin, Cairns have proven over many decades to make wonderful, vivacious companions that can adapt to a variety of living arrangements. Unlike some of the other terrier breeds, Cairns are excellent company for children, being generally very tolerant of fuss and rough-and-tumble play. They thrive in a family environment, but if left unobserved for long periods are known for destructive behaviours, such as digging and chewing.
The Cairn’s unique wiry coat is designed to withstand the harshest of weather in the Scottish Highlands, but can be ruined by a careless groomer, needing only occasional hand-stripping rather than clipping, which can permanently damage the hair. This charming and energetic breed is intelligent and highly trainable, and would be a welcome addition to almost any family. Be warned however — this little dog comes with a big attitude, and very few Cairns will back down from a fight with another dog, no matter the size of the opponent.
Although famously hardy, Cairn Terriers are prone to a number of genetic and congenital health problems, and puppies from reputable breeders will usually be screened for eye and liver disorders at a minimum. With good health care and a little luck, many Cairns will live to over 15 years of age.
The Cairn Terrier is first mentioned in written history when James I sent a delegation of ‘Earth dogges’ as a gift to the King of France in the sixteenth century. The breed was greatly refined on the Isle of Skye around two hundred years ago by Captain Martin MacLeod of Drynock. Their primary purpose was control of vermin – hunting rats, mice, rabbits and foxes. However, they were later used for ‘sporting’ pursuits, such as badger and otter hunting, as their innate toughness allowed them to pursue game in spite of any pain or injury they suffered.
The breed is the progenitor of several other Scottish terrier breeds with West Highland White Terriers and Scottish Terriers being derived from Cairns as recently as the early twentieth century. All terriers in Scotland were designated Scotch Terriers until 1873, when two distinct breeds, the Dandie Dinmont Terrier and Skye Terrier, were recognised. The Skye Terrier group included the modern-day Cairn, with ‘Westies’ and ‘Scotties’ merely representing colour variations of the parent breed, before further selective breeding accentuated differences in coat qualities and other features. Confusingly, the modern Skye Terrier is believed to have a separate ancestry to these other Scottish breeds.
The name ‘Cairn’ derives from the stone tombs of the dog’s homeland, which would have been a haven for the vermin the breed was responsible for controlling. They were first registered under this name by the Kennel Club in 1912, and by its American counterpart one year later, in 1913. Despite the many positive features of the breed, they are ranked as only the 72nd most popular pedigree dog by the American Kennel Club.
To the uninitiated, the Cairn may look ‘scruffy’ due to the nature of its wiry coat and its sometimes irregular colouration. The coarse outer coat of primary hair conceals a softer, shorter undercoat. The breed comes in a great variety of colours, with the Kennel Club accepting the following:
‘Nearly black’ is also listed as an acceptable colour, but solid black/white, and black and tan colours are not permissible for showing. Brindling is a common feature in Cairns, giving a ‘salt-and-pepper’ impression. The American Kennel Club, on the other hand, will accept any colour except solid white.
The head is quite broad with a definite ‘stop’ and a strong, not overly long muzzle. Interestingly, one of the characteristics of the breed is its large teeth, which are not unduly noticeable until one lifts the lip to examine them. The ‘eyebrows’ are usually quite bushy and pronounced, and the eyes are hazel in colour, sitting a little back in the skull. Cairns have a distinctively inquisitive expression and always give the impression of waiting for the answer to some unasked question. Adding to this impression are the small, upright ears – always alert to the slightest noise.
The breed is well-muscled, without being heavy, and should have a strong, level back leading to a vigorously active tail, which should be carried horizontally. The breed is moderately strong-boned, and true to its heritage as a hunting dog, the forepaws are usually slightly larger than the hind paws to enable it to dig for prey.
This is a compact terrier, measuring in the range of 28–31 cms (11–12 ins) at the withers, and typically weighing 6–7.5 kgs (14–16 lbs). The American breed standard favours a shorter stature of up to 10 inches at the withers, but the weight range is similar.
Most Cairns approach life with unbridled enthusiasm; they are active and energetic dogs. They are true terriers, in that they are fearless, and will think nothing of standing up to larger dogs, or even humans, that threaten them. While they are strong-willed and assertive dogs, their nature is such that aggression to humans is rarely a problem. However, training and socialisation is very important for puppies to prevent any issues later in life. Given the chance, a Cairn will happily become ‘top dog’ within a family – a position that should be reserved for a human.
Cairns live for human companionship, and although they are incredibly resilient and can spend much of their lives outdoors, they really do best when in constant or near-constant contact with their owners. As they shed very little at most times of the year, they are ideally suited to a largely indoor lifestyle, where they can keep a close eye on all that happens within the household. Left unattended for long periods, their hunting instincts are likely to take over, and misdirected scratching, digging, and chewing can result in destruction of furniture or other property.
Being an intelligent breed, they are also known for being quite sensitive, and can get very upset after a scolding. Many will also ‘sulk’ for prolonged periods if denied a walk or treat, and will allow their owners only a view of their rear end until all is forgiven. They may be unreliable with cats or small pets, and should not be left unsupervised with these other animals unless they have become well-acquainted.
Despite their obvious intelligence, Cairn Terriers are not the easiest dogs to train. Their excitable and high-energy personalities mean that controlling a Cairn while out for a walk can often be a challenge, particularly in the presence of other dogs, which provide yet more excitement and distraction.
Early, basic training in recall and obedience are strongly advised. This is most easily practiced at meal-times, when ‘come’ and ‘sit’ are more likely to be obeyed in return for food, when there are fewer distractions around. Similarly, lead walking and socialisation should be initiated as soon as the puppy is fully vaccinated. Attending a ‘puppy class’ or group training course can be very helpful in overcoming any excess exuberance when socialising.
Learning tricks and games, however, is a different story. Cairns love the interaction and stimulation involved in these pursuits. Hiding toys around the house for them to find will occupy a Cairn for hours, and they will happily learn to dance, ‘speak’, or perform other tricks for an appropriate reward. These frivolous activities, apart from being fun, facilitate important bonding between dog and owner.
The 'average' Cairn Terrier is a robust, healthy dog. However, there are a considerable number of conditions, which although not common, are more prevalent in the Cairn than in most other breeds. These may be developmental or congenital.
The growth of abnormal eyelashes inside or on the margin of the eyelids. These can cause irritation and discharge in affected eyes, and can be surgically removed.
Also known as allergic skin disease, this irritating skin disorder results from immunologic reactions to inhaled allergens such as house dust mite, pollens, or dander from other pets. While this may prove to be a lifelong problem, the condition can usually be very well managed with medications and through a variety of other measures.
Opacities in the lens of eye obstructing vision, cataracts can be congenital, present from birth, or can develop later in life. Depending on their severity, cataracts may require surgery to prevent loss of sight.
Abnormally small eyes may be noticed in puppies, possibly in combination with other eye abnormalities, including cataracts or eyelid deformities. Microphthalmic eyes are non-visual (blind).
Liver insufficiency due to an abnormal blood vessel or vessels which bypass the normal circulation of blood from the gut. This is an uncommon congenital condition, with signs such as poor growth and seizures usually evident in puppies before one year of age.
An increase in pressure within one or both eyes, causing pain and loss of sight. Seen in middle-aged and older dogs.
Inguinal hernias are common in female Cairn puppies. They can usually be observed or felt in the groin as a soft, fatty lump, which can sometimes be ‘reduced’ into the abdomen with gentle pressure. Surgery is required for repair to prevent problems with entrapment of gut.
Autoimmune destruction of the thyroid glands can cause weight gain, lethargy, hair loss, and reproductive issues. Can be treated easily with hormone supplementation.
Progressive loss of vision due to degeneration of the sensory nerve tissues of the eye. This is a devastating condition, which can be seen in dogs as young as 4 years old, and for which there is no effective treatment.
Abnormal development of the sensory tissues at the back of the eye, causing visual impairment. Can be detected in young pups if examined by a skilled veterinary surgeon. Affected dogs should not be bred.
Weakened attachments of the lens of the eye can result in the lens becoming mobile, and moving into either chamber of the eye. This results in loss of visual acuity, and often glaucoma.
Underdevelopment of the cerebellum (part of the hindbrain) in some puppies results in incoordination and difficulties in walking. Depending on severity, affected puppies may live relatively normal lives.
Also seen in West Highland White Terriers, this condition results in pain and loss of mobility of the jaw, due to excess bone growth. It occurs in puppies between 3 and 8 months of age, and is self-limiting, although bony changes are usually permanent.
Many Cairns demonstrate abnormal protein metabolism, resulting in the excretion of high levels of cysteine (an amino acid) in urine. This may be asymptomatic, but can also cause the formation of cysteine stones, which may cause difficulties in passing urine.
Generally caused by autoimmune destruction of insulin-producing cells in the pancreas, this results in a failiure to absorb glucose by the body’s cells. This manifests in middle-aged and older dogs as weight loss, excess thirst, and lethargy. Treatment is by injectable insulin supplementation, which works well in most dogs.
Cairns are prone to several types of Haemophilia, due to genetic deficiencies in the production of clotting factors. Haemophilia results in excess bleeding in response to minor trauma, and may be first noticed in puppies with heavy blood loss after shedding their 'milk teeth'.
Manifesting in much the same way as haemophilia, bleeding tendencies due to VWD are caused by subnormal function of platelets,, the white blood cells responsible for initiating clot formation.
Abnormal development or function of the globoid cells in the white matter of the nervous system can result in loss of nerve function. Affected puppies struggle to feed and may have seizures. There is no treatment.
Accumulation of cellular waste in nerve cells, again resulting in abnormal neurologic function. This condition develops over time, and progressive signs of incoordination and tremors are noticed in adult dogs of any age.
This is another congenital disorder, where the patella (knee cap) in one or both legs slips out of the normal position. This can result in lameness and discomfort, and in some cases may require surgical correction.
Cairns are quite high-energy little dogs, and will benefit from as much exercise as their human companions can handle. A minimum of 45-minutes of lead walking is recommended daily, which can be supplemented with shorter, more vigorous bursts of activity, for example, while playing in a garden. Most Cairn Terriers are impossible to tire out, and will happily continue these games for long periods.
Cairns do not require an enormous effort to groom. Machine clipping of the coat should never be performed, as it can result in permanent damage to the specialised primary hairs, causing a lack of weather-proofing and a ‘woolly’ appearance. Brushing once or twice weekly is sufficient for most dogs, while a professional groomer can ‘hand-strip’ the coat twice a year to remove dead hairs.
In addition, some shaping of the hair around the face and paws is sometimes required to prevent matting; this can be accomplished with scissors rather than clippers. Frequent bathing is not advisable, as it will impair the coat’s natural ability to repel water.
With a strong-willed breed like the Cairn Terrier, it is a very good idea to introduce regular nail-clipping and teeth brushing at a young age, even before the adult teeth have erupted. Puppies are much more amenable to these interventions than are adult dogs, and getting into these good habits at a young age will make basic care of the adult dog far less stressful.
Cairns have frequently appeared in the public eye, with some of the more  famous examples listed below:
Cairns have been used to introduce bottle-brush characteristics to many other breeds. Some of the better-known crossbreeds include:
Copyright © 2016 - 2019 DogZone.com - Privacy | Authors | Contact
--------------------------------------------------
