The Cardigan Welsh Corgi Club of America

General Information
History
AKC Standard
Illustrated Standard
Frequently Asked Questions
Cardigan Colors
Cardigan Health
Competing with your Cardi
Other Resources

Clicking on the gallery boxes below the main item picture will not show the names of the colors.
Select your size as well as a color.  Then when you click through the color names in the color option field, the picture to match will appear in the box.



On the check out screen, enter in the box under Additional information, Order notes.

CARDIGAN WELSH CORGI CLUB OF AMERICA
APPROVED CONSTITUTION
Effective as of February 8, 2019


ARTICLE I.  Name and Objectives

Section 1.  The name of the Club shall be The Cardigan Welsh Corgi Club of America, Inc.  For purposes of brevity, the Club may also be referred to as “the CWCCA.”

Section 2.  The objectives of the Club shall be:

Section 3.  The Club shall not be operated for profit, and no part of any profits or remainder or residue from dues or donations to the Club shall inure to the benefit of any member or individual.

Section 4.  The members of the Club shall adopt and may from time to time revise such Bylaws as may be required to carry out these objectives.

BYLAWS

ARTICLE I:  Membership

Section 1.  Eligibility.  There shall be five types of membership open to all who are in good standing with the American Kennel Club and who subscribe to the purposes of this Club.

Section 2 Dues.  Annual membership dues shall be set by the Board. Dues are payable July 1st.  If the Board should change the amount of the dues, notice must be sent, to the entire membership by the Treasurer or printed in an official Club publication at least 30 days prior to the first dues notice.  The first notice for dues shall be mailed, or cause to be sent, by the Treasurer by June 1.  Dues not paid by September 1st shall cause membership to lapse.  Dues for Regular members shall not exceed $100 per year, dues for Associate members shall not exceed $75.00 per year, dues for Junior members shall not exceed $50.00 per year and dues for Household and Foreign members shall not exceed $150.00 per year.

Section 3.  Election to Membership.   Each applicant for membership shall apply on a form approved by the Board of Directors and which shall provide that the applicant agrees to abide by the CWCCA Constitution and By-Laws, the Code of Ethics, and the rules of the American Kennel Club.  The application shall carry the endorsement of two members in good standing.  Sponsors must have been a member of the CWCCA for at least one year and known the applicant for at least 6 months.  Accompanying the application, the prospective member shall submit dues payment for the current year.

The names of applicants shall be published in an official CWCCA publication. Written comments are invited from the membership concerning their suitability.  If no adverse comments are received within 60 days of publication, the applicant will be notified of their acceptance.  Any adverse reports received concerning an applicant shall be reviewed by the Board of Directors, and an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the Board shall be necessary to elect the applicant to membership.

An applicant who has received a negative vote by the Board may be presented by one of the applicant’s sponsors at the next annual meeting of the Club, and a favorable vote of ¾ of the regular members present may elect such applicant by secret ballot.

Section 4.  Termination of Membership.  Membership may be terminated:

ARTICLE II:  Meetings

Section 1.  Annual Meeting.  The annual meeting of the Club shall be held at a place, date and hour designated by the Board of Directors, preferably between April 15 and June 15 in conjunction with the National Specialty.  Written notice of the Annual Meeting shall be given to each member at least 60 days prior to the date of the meeting.  Members in good standing shall have 21 days from the mailing of the written notice of the Annual Meeting to submit items for New Business to the Recording Secretary.  A detailed agenda for the Annual Meeting shall be mailed to the members not less than 30 days prior to the Annual Meeting.  The quorum for the Annual Meeting shall be 10% of the regular members in good standing eligible to vote.   Members in good standing may bring up, for discussion only, additional items at the Annual Meeting under New Business.  Final action may be taken only on subject matter included in the agenda notice for the Annual Meeting.  Any properly seconded motion, calling for a vote by mail, e-mail, or in accordance with AKC current policy on electronic balloting, must then be sent by the Corresponding Secretary to all regular members in good standing within 21 days following the Annual Meeting.  All votes by mail are to be returned to the Corresponding Secretary within 30 days of the mailing.

The results of the vote are to be sent by the Corresponding Secretary to the entire membership or published in an official Club publication within 60 days following the deadline for voting.

Section 2.  Special Club Meetings.  Special Club meetings may be called by the President or by a majority vote of the members of the Board who are present at a meeting of the Board or who vote by mail, e-mail, or in accordance with AKC current policy on electronic balloting and shall be called by the Corresponding Secretary upon receipt of a petition signed by 10% of the regular members of the Club in good standing.  Such meeting shall be held at such date, place, and hour as may be designated by the Board of Directors.  Written notice of the Special Club meeting shall be mailed by the Corresponding Secretary at least 21 days and not more than 30 days prior to the meeting.  The notice of the meeting shall state the purpose of the meeting and no other Club business may be transacted.  The quorum for such a meeting shall be 10% of the regular members in good standing.

Section 3.  Board Meetings.  The first meeting of a new Board shall be held following the Annual Meeting.  There shall be a minimum of three Board meetings per year.  Meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places as are designated by the President or the majority of the Board. If agreed upon by the majority of the Board, the Board may hold meetings by conference call or videoconference.  Notice of each such meeting shall be sent by the Recording Secretary by mail, e-mail, or electronic methods in accordance with state law where incorporated to the Board members at least 7 days prior to the date of the meeting.  The quorum for a Board meeting shall be a majority of the Board.  At meetings of the Board, the President shall have discretionary powers to send any properly seconded motion to all of the Board members for a vote by mail, e-mail, or in accordance with AKC current policy on electronic balloting.

Section 4.  Board Business:  The Board of Directors may conduct its business by mail, e-mail, electronic methods in accordance with state law where incorporated, telephone conference call or videoconference. Items voted by telephone call must be confirmed at the next regularly scheduled Board meeting.

ARTICLE III:  DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS

Section 1.  Board of Directors.  General management of the Club’s affairs shall be entrusted to the Board of Directors.  The Board shall be comprised of the President, 1st and 2nd Vice-Presidents, Recording and Corresponding Secretaries, Treasurer, AKC Delegate, and 5 other persons, all of whom shall be regular members in good standing and residents of the United States.  Except for the AKC Delegate who shall serve for a four-year term, they shall be elected for two-year terms, as provided in Article IV, and shall serve until their successors are announced at the Annual Meeting.  Each retiring officer shall turn over to his successor in office all properties and records relating to that office within 30 days after the Annual Meeting.  The immediate past-president shall serve on the Board in an advisory capacity until the succeeding Annual Meeting.

Section 2.  Officers.  The Club’s officers, consisting of the President, 1st and 2nd Vice-Presidents, Recording and Corresponding Secretaries, Treasurer and AKC Delegate shall serve in their respective capacities both with regard to the Club and its meetings and the Board and its meetings.

Section 3.  Vacancies.  Any member of the Board who is absent from three consecutive meetings without just cause, as determined by the Board, will be deemed to have vacated the position.  Any vacancies occurring on the Board or among the officers during the elected term shall be filled for the remainder of the term until the next election by a majority vote of all the then remaining members of the Board; except that a vacancy in the office of President shall be filled automatically by the 1st Vice-President, the 2nd Vice-President shall automatically fill the resulting vacancy in the office of the 1st Vice-President, and the resulting vacancy in 2nd Vice-President shall be filled by a majority vote of the then remaining members of the Board until the next election.

ARTICLE IV:  The Club Year, Voting, Nominations, Elections

Section 1.  Club Year.  The Club’s fiscal year shall begin on the first day of July and end on the 30th day of June.  The Club’s official year shall be the calendar year.

Section 2.  Voting.  At the annual meeting or at a special meeting of the Club, voting shall be limited to those regular members in good standing who are present at the meeting. The election of Officers, Delegate, Directors, amendments to the Constitution and By-Laws, and the standard for the breed shall be decided by written ballot cast by mail, or sent in accordance with the AKC’s most current procedure on Electronic Balloting for AKC Parent Clubs.***

The Board of Directors may decide to submit to the members by mail ballot or sent in accordance with the AKC’s most current procedure on Electronic Balloting for AKC Parent Clubs*** other specific questions.  Such decisions shall be passed by a majority vote of those regular members casting ballots.  Voting by proxy will not be permitted at any time in the carrying out of the Club’s business.

Section 3.  Nominations.  No person may be a candidate in a Club election who has not been nominated in accordance with these By-Laws.  A Nominating Committee shall be chosen by the Board of Directors before October 15th prior to an election year at which the new officers and Board assume office.  The Nominating Committee shall consist of three members from different areas of the United States and two alternates, all regular members in good standing, no more than one of whom may be a member of the current Board of Directors.  The Board shall name a chairman for the Committee.  The Committee may conduct its business by mail, in person, electronic methods in accordance with state law where incorporated, or telephone conference call.

Section 4.  Elections.  The election of Officers, Delegate to the American Kennel Club and Directors shall be conducted by secret mail ballot, or sent in accordance with the AKC’s most current procedure on Electronic Balloting for AKC Parent Clubs*** Such decisions shall be passed by a majority vote of those regular members casting ballots.  Ballots to be valid must be received by the Recording Secretary on or before March 15th of the year of the election of the new Board.  The Board shall appoint three election tellers who are regular members in good standing and who are neither members of the current Board nor candidates on the ballot to count the ballots and report the results to the Recording Secretary.

The nominated candidate receiving the largest number of votes for each position shall be declared elected, and all candidates shall be so notified in writing by the Recording Secretary by April 1st.  If any duly elected candidate withdraws his name or is unable to serve for any reason, the vacancy thus created shall be filled by the majority vote of the new Board of Directors as provided in Article III, Section 3.

*** www.akc.org: Clubs and Delegates / Club Relations / Club Policies / Electronic Balloting for AKC Parent Club

ARTICLE V:  Committees

Section 1.  The Board may appoint standing committees or individuals to advance the work of the Club in such matters as dog shows, companion events, performance events, trophies, annual prizes, membership and other fields which may well be served by committees.  Special committees may also be appointed by the Board to aid it on particular projects.  Such committees shall always be subject to the final authority of the Board.  The President may make emergency committee appointments until confirmed or replaced at the next Board Meeting.

Section 2.  Any committee appointment may be terminated by a majority vote of the full membership of the Board upon written notice to the appointee; and the Board may appoint a successor to the person whose service has been terminated.

Section 3.  Club Credentials.  Use of the Club stationery, past or present, or logos and insignia of the CWCCA, Inc., by any persons other than current officers and members of the Board of Directors, or anyone specifically authorized by the Board of Directors, is prohibited.  Also, restricted is use of such stationery for any purposes other than the official business of this Club.

ARTICLE VI: Discipline

Section 1.  American Kennel Club Suspension.  Any member who is suspended from any of the privileges of the American Kennel Club shall automatically be suspended from the privileges of this Club for a like period.

Section 2.  Charges.  Any member may prefer charges against another member for alleged misconduct prejudicial to the best interests of the Club or the Breed.  Written charges with specifications must be filed in duplicate with the Recording Secretary together with a deposit of $100.00, which shall be forfeited, if such charges are not sustained by the Board following a hearing.  The Recording Secretary shall promptly send a copy of the charges to each member of the Board, or present them at a Board Meeting, and the Board shall first consider whether the action alleged in the charges, if proven, might constitute conduct prejudicial to the best interests of the Breed or the Club.  If the Board determines that the charges do not allege conduct which would be prejudicial to the Breed or the Club, it may refuse to entertain jurisdiction.  If the Board entertains jurisdiction of the charges, it shall fix a date for a hearing by the Board or a Committee of not less than three members of the Board not less than three weeks nor more than six weeks thereafter.  The Recording Secretary shall promptly send one copy of the charges to the accused member by certified mail, together with a notice of the hearing and an assurance that the defendant may personally appear in his own defense, present evidence and/or have witnesses.

Section 3.  Board Hearing.  The Board shall have complete authority to decide whether counsel may attend the hearing, but both complainant and defendant shall be treated uniformly in that regard.  If the hearing is conducted by Committee, at the close of the hearing, the Committee will submit its recommendations for action in writing immediately to the Recording Secretary.  The Recording Secretary will submit the Committee’s recommendations to the full Board for a vote.  Should the charges be sustained, the Board by a majority vote may set a penalty ranging from a letter of reprimand to a suspension of the defendant from all privileges of the Club for not more than six months or until the next Annual Meeting if that will occur after six months.  And, if it deems that punishment insufficient, it may also recommend to the membership that the penalty be expulsion.  Immediately after the Board has reached a decision, its findings shall be put in written form and filed with the Recording Secretary.  The Recording Secretary, in turn, shall notify each of the parties of the decision and penalty, if any.  Notice of official disciplinary action shall be published in an official club publication.

Section 4.  Expulsion.  Expulsion of a member of the Club may be accomplished only at an Annual Meeting of the Club following a hearing and upon the recommendation of the Board as provided in Section 3 of this Article.  The defendant shall have the privilege of appearing in his own behalf, though no evidence shall be taken at this hearing.  The President shall read the charges and the findings and recommendations of the Board, and shall invite the defendant, if present, to speak in his own behalf.  The meeting shall then vote by secret ballot on the proposed expulsion.  A 2/3 vote of the Regular Members present and voting at the Annual Meeting shall be necessary for expulsion.  If expulsion is not so voted, the suspension shall stand.

ARTICLE VII:   Amendments

Section 1.  Amendments.  Amendments to the Constitution and By-Laws and Standard of the Breed may be proposed by the Board of Directors or by written petition addressed to the Recording Secretary signed by 20% of the regular members in good standing. The Board of Directors shall promptly consider amendments proposed by said petition. The Corresponding Secretary shall mail, or send in accordance with the AKC’s most current procedure on Electronic Balloting for AKC Parent Clubs, said petition with the Board’s recommendation to the regular members for a vote within three months of the date when the Secretary received the petition. Amendments proposed by the Board of Directors shall be mailed, or sent in accordance with the AKC’s most current procedure on Electronic Balloting for AKC Parent Clubs,*** by the Corresponding Secretary to each regular member for comment. Any comments thereon shall be returned to the Corresponding Secretary within 30 days from the date of mailing. All comments will be considered in preparation of the final amendments to be submitted to the members for vote.

Section 2.  The Constitution and the By-Laws and the Standard of the Breed may be amended at any time provided that procedures set forth in Section 1 above have been followed. All ballots concerning such amendments shall be by the dual-envelope procedure described in Article IV, Section 3(d), or sent in accordance with the AKC’s most current procedure on Electronic Balloting for AKC Parent Clubs.*** Notice with such ballot shall specify a date not less than 30 days after the date of mailing by which date the ballots must be returned to the Recording Secretary to be counted. The favorable vote of 2/3 of the Regular members in good standing who return valid ballots within the time limit shall be required to effect any such amendment.

Section 3.  No amendment to the Constitution and By-Laws, or the Standard for the Breed adopted by the Club shall become effective until it has been approved by the Board of Directors of the American Kennel Club.

*** www.akc.org: Clubs and Delegates / Club Relations / Club Policies / Electronic Balloting for AKC Parent Club

ARTICLE VIII:  Dissolution

Section 1.  The Club may be dissolved at any time by the written consent of not less than 2/3 of the regular members.  In the event of dissolution, other than for the purpose of reorganization, whether voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law, none of the property of the Club nor any proceeds thereof, nor any assets of the Club shall be distributed to any members of the Club, but after payment of the debts of the Club, its property and assets shall be given to a charitable organization for the benefit of dogs selected by the Board of Directors.

ARTICLE IX:  Order of Business

Section 1.  At meetings of the Club, the order of business, so far as the character and nature of the meeting may permit, shall be as follows:
Minutes of the last meeting
Report of the President
Reports of the Secretaries
Report of the Treasurer
Reports of Committee
Report of Election Results (Annual Meeting)
Unfinished Business
New Business
Adjournment

Section 2.  At meetings of the Board, the order of business unless otherwise directed by majority vote of those present, shall be as follows:

Minutes of the last meeting
Report of the Secretaries
Report of the Treasurer
Reports of Committees
Unfinished Business
New Business
Adjournment

ARTICLE X:  Parliamentary Authority

Section 1.  The rules contained in the current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly Revised, shall govern the Club in all cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with these By-Laws and any other special rules of order the Club may adopt.
Effective November 15, 1999Revised April 14, 2007

Each member of the Cardigan Welsh Corgi Club of America, referred to as the CWCCA shall consider the welfare of the Breed and Club paramount when engaging in any activities involving owning, breeding, leasing, exhibiting, and selling of the Cardigan Welsh Corgis. Acceptance of this Code of Ethics is a condition of membership in the CWCCA.



Revised by vote of membership April 2007
For the best reading experience, use the Full Screen icon at the bottom of the pages.
Clicking on the lower outside corner will turn the page.
Mobile devices: Rotate to landscape mode for best results.
Zoom In Zoom Out Download Print Full Screen Settings

This site uses cookies – small text files that are placed on your machine to help the site provide a better user experience and track your CardiShop purchases. They are not used for any other purpose.
Cookies must be active in the Members’ Section for your login status.
--------------------------------------------------
Image from : Cardigan Welsh Corgi Image - Created by PETmuch
The Cardigan Welsh Corgi, one of the oldest herding breeds, traces its origins to Wales over 1,000 years ago. Originally bred to herd cattle and guard farms, their agility, intelligence, and sturdy build made them indispensable working dogs.
The breed’s coat is double-layered, providing weather resistance, with a soft undercoat and a coarse outer coat. Cardigan Welsh Corgis come in a variety of colors, including brindle, black and white, sable, and red. Unique shades like the Blue Merle Cardigan Welsh Corgi commonly referred to as the “Welsh Corgi Merle” or “Corgi Blue Merle” add a striking appearance to this already distinctive breed and is a very sort after coloration for this breed.
Physically, these dogs are compact and sturdy, with an average height of 10.5–12.5 inches and weight ranging from 25–38 pounds. The Cardigan Welsh Corgi lifespan is approximately 12–15 years. These adaptable dogs excel in activities like obedience, agility, and even therapy work.
Cardigans are known for their loyal, affectionate, and intelligent nature. While they form strong bonds with their families, they can be initially reserved around strangers. This trait, combined with their keen senses, gives them a natural watchdog instinct, though they aren’t typically aggressive.
They are good with children when interactions are supervised and also cohabit well with cats and other pets. Cardigans bark occasionally, especially to alert their owners, but are not excessively vocal.
These dogs enjoy engaging with their families but may display stubbornness if training is inconsistent. They thrive with positive reinforcement and mental challenges. While they make excellent companions, Cardigans are not ideal as full-time outdoor or guard dogs.
Image from : Cardigan Welsh Corgi Image - Created by PETmuch
Training a Cardigan Welsh Corgi is relatively easy due to their intelligence and eagerness to please. They excel in obedience and agility training, but consistency is key to overcoming occasional stubbornness.
Cardigans shed moderately throughout the year, with heavier shedding during seasonal changes. Weekly brushing and occasional baths suffice for grooming. Nail trimming, ear cleaning, and dental care should also be part of their routine.
While they adapt to apartment living, they need daily walks and playtime to burn energy. Secure housing is vital, as these agile dogs can jump or wriggle through gaps. Cardigans coexist well with other breeds, provided proper introductions are made.
Image from : Cardigan Welsh Corgi Image - Created by PETmuch
When buying Cardigan Welsh Corgi puppies, ensure they are active, have a clean coat, and come with health clearances. Check papers for parentage and vaccinations. Coat color is identifiable early in life, making it easier to spot patterns like “Blue Merle Welsh Corgi.”
For adoption, a veterinary checkup is crucial to rule out health issues. Older dogs from rescues may need more patience as they adjust. Breeding Cardigan Welsh Corgis requires careful planning, with a focus on the pregnant female’s diet and housing the litter safely.
Countries like the USA, UK, Australia, and Japan are particularly fond of this breed, with Cardigan Welsh Corgi puppies priced around $1,200–$2,500 in the USA, and varying internationally.
No comments posted yet !
Explore Pets Beyond PETmuch.com
--------------------------------------------------
Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share
Height:
10 – 13 inches
Weight:
25 – 38 pounds
Lifespan:
12 – 15 years
Colors:
Merle, sable and white, brindle and white, black and white, brindle and white, blue merle and white, red and white
Suitable for:
Families with children
Temperament:
Loyal & loving, easygoing, trainable, smart, social, get along with other pets
With that distinctive wiggle when they walk, short legs, and fox-like appearance, the Cardigan Welsh Corgi definitely stands out in a crowd. These easygoing, intelligent, and super cheerful herding pups make quite the impression on whoever they come into contact with!
Ranking in as one of the top 100 most popular dog breeds, this low-slung dog makes the perfect pet for just about anyone. If you’re considering bringing a Cardigan Welsh Corgi into your home, here’s everything you need to know about this stubby-legged, stellar little pooch.

Cardigan Welsh Corgi puppies are little fluff balls of absolute cuteness! And they don’t just have good looks. Corgis are also known to be extremely affectionate, easygoing, and friendly to both people and other pets.
With the Cardigan Welsh Corgi being one of the most popular types of purebred dog breeds available on the market, buyers should be wary of backyard breeders, puppy mills, and other bad news breeding facilities. Puppies from such operations can be littered with both health and behavioral issues, costing you time, money, and heartache for years to come.
But what exactly is the difference between a backyard breeder and a puppy mill? While both are out to make a quick profit and have little regard for the welfare of the dogs they are breeding, there are some key differences between these two breeding operations.
A puppy mill, also known as a puppy farm, is a large-scale commercial dog breeding establishment characterized by poor conditions and quick breeding. According to the Humane Society of the United States, there are over 10,000 puppy mills currently actively breeding in the country. Within those facilities, over 194,000 dogs are being kept solely for breeding purposes and over 2 million puppies are being sold.
A backyard breeder is just as bad as a puppy mill. These are normally individuals who breed dogs in their backyards, hence the namesake. These amateur animal breeders make little or no effort toward selective, ethical breeding.
Don’t let your Cardigan Welsh Corgi’s petite stature fool you! He was originally bred to herd sheep and cows.
“Corgi” means “dwarf” in Welsh.
Ancient folklore suggests that this breed was created by a fairy kingdom. Fairies would use the Cardigan Welsh Corgis as mounts.

By nature, the Corgi is a herding dog. This means that he loves to chase, nip, and get everyone in the same part of the room at the same time. This smart, spunky breed is also an excellent watchdog and is fiercely loyal.
Super smart, the Cardigan Welsh Corgi needs proper socialization and training from the get-go, or else he’ll become quite bossy.
Yes, a Corgi is great for families! However, he’s better suited for active families that will keep him busy. Your Cardigan Welsh Corgi needs a lot of room to run, learn, and play, thus a suburban home with a sprawling yard makes a better home for a Cardigan Welsh Corgi than a city apartment.
Yep! A Cardigan Welsh Corgi will love just about every other furry (or feathered) member of your household. However, it is important to socialize him with other dogs, as well as cats, from day one so he won’t try to chase and corral them.

Now that we’ve covered the Corgi’s personality and intelligence, let’s take a look at everything else you’ll need to know about your new Cardigan Welsh Corgi puppy.
When it comes to feeding your Cardigan Welsh Corgi, we recommend feeding him one to 1.5 cups of dry, high-quality, grain-free kibble divided into two meals daily.
Corgis are prone to obesity. So, go lightly on the treats and tasty tidbits. And don’t feed your Cardigan Welsh Corgi wet food every day. Wet dog food is high in protein and can pack on the pounds.
The Cardigan Welsh Corgi is a dog with a moderate energy level. He’ll require 20 to 40 minutes of exercise every day. Whether that’s a brisk walk or a romp in the backyard, these short exercise sessions will keep your Cardi Corgi happy.
The Cardigan Welsh Corgi is an extremely intelligent little boy. He’ll master basic obedience skills quickly and easily. However, his smarts are a double-edged sword because your Corgi needs a ton of mental stimulation to keep boredom at bay.
Treat him to challenging tricks or a puppy play puzzle to keep his mind active.
Since Cardi Corgis are prone to yapping, it’s important to teach him good manners right off the bat. Consider enrolling your dog in basic puppy training classes when you initially bring him home.
Your Corgi has a double-coat that includes a short undercoat and a thick, long topcoat. They continuously shed, so daily brushing is in order to keep the flying hair in check.
Brush his teeth, clean his ears, and clip his nails routinely. You should bathe your Corgi once every 4-8 weeks, or as needed if their coat gets dirty. Otherwise, they are pretty low maintenance when it comes to grooming.
Overall, the Cardigan Welsh Corgi is a very healthy dog. However, they have been known to suffer from some health conditions, including eye problems and hypothyroidism. This is why it is important to purchase your Cardi Corgi from a quality breeder.
The male Cardigan Welsh Corgi will be several inches taller and several pounds heavier than his lady counterpart. There are no huge temperament differences between the two sexes. However, regardless of which sex you get, it is important to spay or neuter your Corgi. Not only can this prevent unwanted puppies, but it can also help cut down on undesirable behaviors and reduce the risk of certain types of cancers.

If you’re thinking of adding a Cardigan Welsh Corgi to your home, be sure you’re buying him from a reputable breeder. The Cardi Corgi is a fun-loving and intelligent dog that will do well in an active household where he can get 40 minutes of exercise per day. Good with kids and other pets, the Cardigan Welsh Corgi needs daily brushing and a grain-free, dry doggy diet to keep his waistline small.
Overall, the Cardigan Welsh Corgi is an amazing dog and will make a fine addition to almost any home!
See also:
Featured Image Credit: Serova_Ekaterina, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
Can Cats Eat Kale? Vet-Reviewed Nutrition Facts & FAQ
4 Homemade Grain-Free Cat Treat Recipes (Vet Approved)
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Cats
Cats
Info
© All Rights Reserved Hepper 2025
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Thinking of getting a Cardigan Welsh Corgi and would like to know if Cardigan Welsh Corgis are safe with cats?
Find out all about Cardigan Welsh Corgi cat friendliness and how to make your Cardigan Welsh Corgi friendlier with felines here.



A typical mistake a lot of people make is believing that all pets hate felines and all felines hate pets. This isn’t real and there are lots of dog breeds that are good with felines. Dogs that aren’t naturally cat friendly can also be trained to be safer around cats.
According to professional Cardigan Welsh Corgi dog experts, Cardigan Welsh Corgi dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of dog breeds that are cat friendly.



Regardless of the misconception, a great deal of canines and cats can cohabit comfortably. Follow these simple to follow steps to find out how to best introduce your Cardigan Welsh Corgi with a feline.


Not all Cardigan Welsh Corgis don’t like felines, some get along with them. When Cardigan Welsh Corgis do hate cats, of the most common reason is quite straightforward. Like all dogs, Cardigan Welsh Corgis still hold onto some of the hunting impulses that they were initially reproduced for. This is why Cardigan Welsh Corgis like chasing all moving objects, whether it’s a ball, rodent, or a feline.
Since the majority of cats will run away when they come across, it’s simple to see why they are known for not being friendly with each other. Cardigan Welsh Corgis really delight in chasing after cats not because they hate them, but primarily because a fast running animal activates a strong, natural impulse to chase overcomes any training or socialisation.


Training your Cardigan Welsh Corgi to stop chasing cats requires time, training and consistency, but the benefit of not needing to worry about them constantly chasing is very well worth it. Here are the steps of how to stop your Cardigan Welsh Corgi from going after cats.


The very best method to guarantee your Cardigan Welsh Corgi would never ever kill a cat is to raise them with felines when they’re a pup prior to 3 months old. At this age, they will usually want to have fun with the cats and won’t see them as prey.
If your Cardigan Welsh Corgi has actually eliminated a feline in the past, its ideal if you keep them in an open, enclosed area. When taking them for walks try to prevent going after dusk and prior to dawn because that’s when felines are most active and most likely to be wandering the streets.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
Cardigan Welsh Corgis are believed to have descended from the Swedish Vallhund, a spitz-type herding dog that was brought to Wales by the Vikings around the 9th century. The breed's name Corgi derives from the Welsh words cor, meaning dwarf, and gi,meaning dog. However, the American Kennel Club (AKC) states that the word “corgi,” originally “kergie,” is ancient Celtic for “dog”.

These dogs were prized for their herding, guarding, and companion skills. Cardigans are the older of the two corgi breeds and are known for their long tails, distinguishing them from their cousins, the Pembroke Welsh Corgis. They are hardworking, spirited, and dependable dogs. Their history and breed characteristics make them well-suited to active households where they can exercise both their bodies and minds.
Cardigan Welsh Corgis can suffer from hip dysplasia, back issues, progressive retinal atrophy (PRA), and degenerative myelopathy. They may also be affected by exercise-induced collapse, severe combined immunodeficiency disease, X-linked (XSCID), von Willebrand Disease I, and chondrodystrophy and intervertebral disc disease (CDDY and IVDD risk) with or without chondrodysplasia (CDPA). As for all breeds, genetic screening is recommended to assist veterinarians with diagnosis and proactive care, as well as help breeders identify affected and carrier dogs.
The Cardigan Welsh Corgi is a lively and intelligent breed. They are known for their affectionate and loyal nature, making them excellent family pets. These dogs are good with children and other pets, and they generally love being part of family activities.Despite their small size, they have a large dog's personality and don't shy away from protecting their families if they perceive a threat. As a herding breed, they are highly intelligent and quick to learn. However, this can also mean they have a tendency to be a bit stubborn at times.Regular mental and physical exercise is a must for this breed, as they can easily become bored, which may lead to unwanted behaviors. Although Cardigan Welsh Corgis can adapt to various living conditions, they are not ideal for inactive owners due to their energetic nature.
The Cardigan Welsh Corgi was named for the medieval kingdom of Cardiganshire, Wales.This breed is famously associated with the Queen of England, but each type of Welsh Corgi has a distinct history and set of characteristics.Unlike the Pembroke Welsh Corgi, the Cardigan Welsh Corgi has a tail.
https://www.pawprintgenetics.com/products/breeds/35/ https://ofa.org/chic-programs/browse-by-breed/?breed=WCChttps://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/cardigan-welsh-corgi/ https://www.thekennelclub.org.uk/about-us/campaigns/the-queens-platinum-jubilee/a-history-of-the-queens-corgis/
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
