Cat Breeds
Exquisite blue coats, intelligent personalities, and smiling faces make the Chartreux stand out. This old French cat breed was nearly wiped out during the first and second world wars and remains rare today.
Chartreux cats bond with their families but tend to prefer one individual over everyone else. They have a tendency to follow their favorite person from room to room, sometimes mewing or chirping softly. If you're looking for a cat with a reputation for quiet vocalizations, the Chartreux may be ideal; in fact, some Chartreux cats are mute.
The Chartreux cat requires no special diet; however, we recommend feeding a high-quality cat food with omega-3 fatty acids to promote skin and coat health.
Chartreux cats have thick, luxurious coats with a unique woolly texture. These cats require regular brushing to prevent excess shedding, hairballs, and the occasional knot.
While the Chartreux cat enjoys playing with toys and climbing cat trees, the breed isn't terribly active as a rule. You'll want to encourage play to prevent obesity, but Chartreux cats aren't prone to hyperactivity when playtime is missed.
Chartreux cats are generally very healthy and enjoy a lifespan that extends an average of 12 to 15 years. A few known health issues surface in some individuals, including patellar luxation, bladder stones, and polycystic kidney disease.
Although legend states that today's Chartreux cats are descendants of cats that were originally imported to France by Carthusian monks, the monastic order states that no archives hold records of historic use of cats resembling the Chartreux breed.
A separate legend states that Chartreux cats are descended from feral mountain cats that originated in Syria and that were brought to France in the 13th century by Crusaders. French naturalist Buffon officially describes the breed in the 18th century. The cats are renowned as excellent hunters and were highly prized by farmers for their rat-catching prowess.
Chartreux cats were nearly wiped out during the first world war. Wild populations disappeared by the end of the second world war. At the same time, European breeders worked together to prevent all-out extinction, crossbreeding with Persian, British Shorthair, and Russian Blue cats that strengthened the breed.
Chartreux cats made their way to the United States in 1971. The breed was advanced to championship status after being accepted by the Cat Fanciers Association in 1987. All cat fancy organizations recognize the Chartreux cat breed.
In France, pedigreed Chartreux cats are always given names that encode their birth year. All Chartreux cats born in the same year have official names that begin with the same letter. Code letters change annually, and rotate through the alphabet. The letters K, Q, W, X, Y, and Z are not used.
Even though the first documented mention of Chartreux cats occurred in the 18th century, their first mention occurred in 1558 in a poem by Joachim du Bellay.
The average Chartreux cat reaches adulthood by age 2; in comparison, most domesticated cats are considered to be adults by the end of their first year.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Chartreux, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Chartreux or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Chartreux, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Chartreux cats cost between $500-$2,500.
Chartreux cats tend to be large in size. A fully grown Chartreux cat might weigh between 11-18 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8"-11" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Chartreux is 11-15 years.
Chartreux are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
I have an adorable 9 month old. I got him off Craigslist and had no idea he was a Chartreux. I don’t think the seller realized either. I got him for $15. He is the sweetest, friendliest and silliest kitten Ive ever had. He’s like a dog with his affection. Soooo friendly. But like a cat (that he is) with his antics lol. Love him to pieces!
Glad you found such a wonderful new friend!
I believe I was adopted by a big male Chartruex who also was abandoned by my house. I had him fixed because I didn’t know anything about the breed. He does cuddle and lick me also. He follows me from room to room and does mew! I have two female regular domestic shorthairs which he chases but they all get along pretty well! Susan from NC USA
I own 2 purebred Chartreux. One is a retired Grand Champion that I adopted after his owner passed, the other I bought as a kitten. These cats are highly intelligent, and very pleasant in their dispositions. They will protect their owners due to the strong bonding that occurs. Behavior is very much like having a smart, loyal dog. I first discovered the breed when I was adopted by an abandoned, very large Male. Didn’t  know what breed he was at first. We had 6 great years together when he passed. I absolutely fell in love with the breed, and had a hard time locating a quality breeder here in NE USA. They are a very athletic, but also a very calm cat. They don’t mind traveling, nor going to the vet. They do demand attention in the way of affection and play, as well as showing their affection by way of cuddling, and licking you. I used to have Doberman Pinscers years ago, and these cats share some similar traits. One of the best in breeds of cats!
Welli feel very sorry for u willam when he passed if my chartreux passed away i would have a complete meltdown… 🙁
Mira,
I DID have a complete meltdown when my Chartreux boy was diagnosed with cancer and had to be put down within days.
I’m 65 now and have had other beloved pets, but losing him was and still is the worst “fur kid” loss I have ever experienced.
Broke my heart.
Hi William!
I was wondering if you had any luck finding a breeder in the US for chartreux? I don’t mind flying to them.
My heart cat passed away recently at 10 years old, and I always felt he was part chartreux. He was a tiny kitten we found as a stray.
My home and heart eeds another big blue face, and I am hoping I can find a Chartreux breeder in the United States.
Thank you for your time
--------------------------------------------------
As for every French cat with a pedigree, the first letter of the official name of a Chartreux cat encodes the year of its birth.[1] All Chartreux born in the same year have official names beginning with the same letter. The code letters rotate through the alphabet each year, omitting the letters K, Q, W, X, Y, and Z. For example, a Chartreux born in 2021 would have an official name starting with the letter S.[2]
The Chartreux is mentioned for the first time in 1558 by Joachim du Bellay in a poem entitled Vers Français sur la mort d'un petit chat, or "French verse on the death of a small cat" in English.[3]
There is another representation of a Chartreux in 1747 in the Jean-Baptiste Perronneau's painting Magdaleine Pinceloup de la Grange, into which the cat is painted as a pet, quite rare for the time.[4]
There is a legend that the Chartreux are descended from cats brought to France by Carthusian monks to live in the order's head monastery, the Grande Chartreuse, located in the Chartreuse Mountains north of the city of Grenoble.[5] But in 1972, the Prior of the Grande Chartreuse denied that the monastery's archives held any records of the monks' use of any breed of cat resembling the Chartreux.[6]
Legend also has it that the Chartreux's ancestors were feral mountain cats from what is now Syria, brought back to France by returning Crusaders in the 13th century, many of whom entered the Carthusian monastic order.[citation needed]
The first documented mention of the breed was by the French naturalist Buffon in the 18th century. The breed was greatly diminished during the first World War and wild populations[7] were not seen after World War II, except perhaps in Belle-Île-en-Mer where the Léger sisters started breeding the best subjects. A later concerted effort by European cat fanciers-breeders kept the Chartreux from extinction. The first Chartreux were brought to the U.S. in 1971 by Helen and John Gamon of La Jolla, California. In 1987, the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) advanced the Chartreux breed to championship status.[5] There are fewer than two dozen active Chartreux breeders in North America as of 2007[update].[needs update]
Historically, famous Chartreux owners include the French novelist Colette, Charles Baudelaire and the French president Charles de Gaulle.
Chartreux cats tend to be quiet, rarely making noises such as meowing or crying, and some are even completely mute. They are quite observant and intelligent, with some Chartreux learning to operate radio on/off buttons and to open screen door latches. They take about two years to reach adulthood. Chartreux cats are playful cats well into their adult years; some can be taught to fetch small objects in the same manner as a dog. Chartreux are good with children and other animals. They are non-aggressive, affectionate, good travelers and generally very healthy.  Chartreux tend to bond with one person in their household, preferring to be in their general vicinity (often following their favoured person from room to room), though they are still loving and affectionate to the other members of the household.[citation needed]
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: LucasBouillon, Pixabay
Last Updated on January 29, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Chartreux cat has a rich history that began in the countryside of France. This easygoing cat breed does well in a wide variety of different households. Known for being extremely quiet, the Chartreux is thought to have been bred over time to have a distinctive tiny meow. This was done so the cats would not disturb their monk caretakers when they meditated.
This interesting cat breed deserves more attention from cat lovers all over the world. You might be wondering whether the Chartreux is a good pet candidate for your household. Here, we cover everything from their temperament and intelligence to their health and care requirements, so you can get to know the breed better and decide whether you should adopt one of your own.
Height:
9–11 inches
Weight:
6–9 pounds
Lifespan:
12–16 years
Colors:
Blue, silver-grey
Suitable for:
Singles, small and large families, seniors, and anyone looking for a quiet feline
Temperament:
Loving, docile, friendly
Cute, cuddly, and quiet sums up what the Chartreux cat is all about. This breed’s beautiful blue coat is also enough to melt your heart at first sight. The average Chartreux is high-spirited, intelligent, and docile. This is a generally healthy breed, though they are susceptible to developing a few different conditions. With a lifespan of up to 16 years, a Chartreux comes with the requirement of making a long-term commitment.

Anyone with an affinity for cats would find it challenging not to instantly fall in love with a Chartreux kitten. These adorable blue cats are soft to the touch and gentle by nature, making interacting and snuggling with them irresistible. Although curious and playful, Chartreux kittens are not particularly active. However, their strong prey drive makes them lovers of exploration and game playing.
The Chartreux cat is an extremely intelligent breed that is excellent at hunting, so they can help keep your home free of mice and other small pests. These cats spent a long time living in the streets, where conditions were harsh, so they tend to be hardy and agile housecats today. For cats with tiny meows, they sure purr mightily when they are happy! This breed adapts easily and makes loyalty to family members a priority.
If you want to get and keep the attention of a Chartreux, all you must do is get a battery-operated toy that moves around on its own. This breed can spend hours on end chasing their toy “prey” around the house. Human-powered toys, like a feather at the end of a string, can also be used to create a fun bonding experience for both of you. These cats have a stubborn side, though, so if they don’t want to play or cuddle with you or provide you with any other kind of attention, they’ll make it clear, and there is not much that you can do about it!
This cat breed can make an excellent pet for families of all shapes and sizes. Singles and seniors can enjoy their quiet companionship, and families with kids can appreciate their curious and playful side. Due to their adaptable personality, the Chartreux can be happy living in an apartment or a house. All this breed really needs is a warm place to sleep, a clean litter box, food and water, a few toys, and room to explore for optimal happiness.
The typical Chartreux can get along well with other cats in the house, but they tend to be standoffish and untrusting when it comes to commingling with dogs. As for smaller animals like rabbits and hamsters, a Chartreux is likely to spend much of their time trying to figure out how to “capture” what they would see as prey. As a general rule, it’s best not to house this cat breed with dogs or small “prey” animals.

It will take a considerable amount of your time, love, and money to properly care for a Chartreux cat. There are several things that you should know about caring for this breed before ultimately deciding whether to adopt one of your own.
This cat breed does not have any special diet requirements that are different from those of most other breeds. Their diet should consist of high-quality dry cat food that has real meat as the first ingredient. Feeding should be based on the product’s instructions or a veterinarian’s recommendations.
The Chartreux cat enjoys exercising in short spurts, as they would do in the wild when hunting down prey. Exercise should come in the form of playing with interactive toys, but your cat will likely also get exercise by following you around the house when you’re active. Puzzle toys can help keep this breed happy and healthy as time goes on too. When they are not playing with toys, exploring the house, or following you around, you will probably find your Chartreux kitty curled up in a corner, snoozing.
This breed is extremely smart, so they can take well to any training. The average Chartreux can quickly learn how to come when their name is called, chase a toy that is thrown in front of them, and even bring their favorite toy to a family member. There is no need to work to train a Chartreux cat, though. They can learn basic things, like their name, on their own simply by paying attention.
The Chartreux cat’s coat is made up of slightly woolly hair that acts as a waterproof barrier of sorts. They can keep their coat clean, but they do shed moderately, so it’s a good idea to get into the practice of brushing them about once a week throughout the year. They also have a shedding season, which is when their shedding gets more intense, usually during the springtime. This is a good time to increase brushing sessions to two or three times a week.
This is a healthy cat breed in general, but some Chartreux cat lines pass down a genetic condition called hereditary patellar luxation. It can make a Chartreux cat’s kneecap come out of its track while they’re walking, running, or playing. There are a few other health conditions that this breed is susceptible to.

Both male and female Chartreux cats have the same basic traits of being affectionate, loyal, and curious. Some males are more active than their female counterparts, and tend to be more devoted to their human family members. But there aren’t enough differences between the sexes to justify choosing one over the other due to temperament, intelligence, or personality. Each cat is unique in their own right and should be judged as such.
The Chartreux is a renowned hunter, stealthy and agile and always willing to lie in wait for an opportunity to pounce on their prey. These cats have a history of living aboard ships and traveling with traders to help keep rat populations under control. They also lived on the streets, where their sole source of food was rats and other small animals. They have maintained this trait and can help protect homes from mice and rats today.
While it’s almost certain that the Carthusian monks in France kept the Chartreux breed around, the rumor that these monks created the breed is likely untrue. Still, it’s easy to understand why monks would have kept this breed for company, as they are mild-mannered and quiet. They could also help keep the monastery free of pests.
Chartreux breeders in France (and beyond) maintain a tradition of naming their kittens based on the alphabet and the year of birth (the letters K, Q, W, X, Y, and Z are omitted from this cat-naming tradition). For example, the kittens born in 2012 were given names starting with the letter “H,” while kittens born in 2019 were given names starting with the letter “P.”

The Chartreux cat is a calm, kind, and even-tempered breed that deserves consideration by anyone looking to add a feline family member to their household. Whether you live by yourself, with kids, or with roommates, this breed is sure to get along just fine with everyone. Keeping them safe and comfortable is all that is necessary to create a lifelong friendship with your Chartreux.
Featured Image Credit: LucasBouillon, Pixabay
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Rachael has been a freelance writer since 2000, in which time she has had an opportunity to research and write about many different topics while working to master the art of fusing high-quality content with effective content marketing strategies. She is an artist at heart and loves to read, paint, and make jewelry in her spare time. As a vegan, Rachael is obsessed with helping animals in need both in her community and anywhere in the world where she feels she can make a difference. Animals also happen to be her favorite topic to write about! She lives off the grid in Hawaii with her husband, her garden, and her rescue animals including 5 dogs, a cat, a goat, and dozens of chickens.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
This pretty and moderate cat is well proportioned, muscular and agile. Eyes can range from yellow to copper, and are large and open, giving them an attractive expression. This is a sturdy, robust cat but not leaning towards fat or hefty, the over-all impression is of a ‘business’ cat, rather than a ‘lazy’ cat.
There are no common disorders reported for the Chartreux breed at present.
The Chartreux is a low-chaos, thoughtful cat, not too loud, demanding or dramatic.. They bond well with family, though typically bonding most strongly with just one person, and they are affectionate with everyone they live with, easy to handle and even said to be good travellers - which is not a usual feline trait.
Short playtimes interspersed with naps and meals are his idea of the perfect day. They appreciated any and all attention, they rarely use their voice, preferring to use their eyes to do all the talking. If needs be, they can be vocal with just to get attention.
The Chartreux has experienced tough times. They were first mentioned in the early 1700’s when these stocky little cats were kept as ratters but they were also killed for their meat and pelts during the various famines, economic crisis and wars France experienced. Surviving Chartreux had to be quick-witted and hardy, and that nature remains in the modern Chartreux to some extent!
In the early 20th Century, cat breeders realised very few wild colonies of Chartreux remained, and some became interested in preserving the breed for posterity. The breed description was put together based on 18th century descriptions and they have changed little since, which is very rare within the cat world!
The Chartreux remains playful well into maturity, and are very much creatures of habit, preferring a predictable, stable household routine. They are intelligent and can be taught via clicker training but are not in need of excessive amounts of entertainment.
A little light ‘chase the thing on a string’ and some lap-time will do the Chartreux nicely – followed by a good nap after lunch. As with most cats, they would benefit from the use of food dispensing toys that recreate some elements of hunting and catching prey. Good mental stimulation, especially if kept as indoor cats, is important for the happiness and wellbeing of your Chartreux.
The Chartreux is a fully capable hunter and responsible owners must keep them secured in their own gardens. They can have free access to a secure garden or cat-run as they are unlikely to get into trouble, and are smart enough to bring themselves in via a cat-flap should the weather turn nasty.
It is advised to keep the Chartreux as indoor cats, however they do like the chance to go outdoors. If kept as an indoor cat, to fill the need for the outdoors, the Chartreux would need access to significant cat-trees and jungle gym type equipment.
Every cat is unique and each has their own particular likes, dislikes, and needs when it comes to food. However, cats are carnivores and every cat must obtain 41 different and specific nutrients from their food. The proportion of these nutrients will vary depending on age, lifestyle and overall health, so it's not surprising that a growing, energetic kitten needs a different balance of nutrients in her diet than a less active senior cat.
The Chartreux tend to be sensitive to rich food or too many changes in diet, so it is recommended to take advice from your veterinarian on selecting the right quality food. Bare in mind, that as they age adult Chartreux cats are not as active and can suffer from cat obesity if overfed.
Other considerations to bear in mind are feeding the right quantity of food to maintain 'ideal body condition' in accordance with feeding guidelines and catering to individual preference regarding wet or dry food recipes.
A weekly comb through, do not brush this woolly coat, to remove dead coat and check for scratches or scrapes will suffice. The Chartreux should take care of their own grooming the rest of the time. Bathing this breed is rarely a necessity, however, if they do require a bath, remember that it can take time to get their water-repellent coat wet enough to reap the benefits of a good clean.
The Chartreux are known to shed more in the spring and require more brushing during that time to help rid them of loose hairs.
Remember that a greasy coat can be evidence that your cat is no longer attempting to groom themselves, which can be indicative of poor or failing health or excessive weight. As with all cats, Chartreux benefit from regular vaccination, parasite control and an annual veterinary health check.
The Chartreux makes an excellent family cat for the steady, quiet family with older children who know how to respect a cat’s space and need for uninterrupted naps. They are good travellers and may suit those who holiday at second homes or pet friendly cottages, which many cats would not tolerate. They are also fine with being left home alone whilst owners work each day.
The Chartreux is also suitable to live with cat-friendly dogs, due to their amiable disposition. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure positive interactions.
Finding a Chartreux cat to call you own may be a tricky task, due to the uniqueness of the breed. Since these cats are such a treasure, it is rare to find them in a shelter or specific breed rescues. However, it does sometimes happen, owners give up their beloved pets, for many reasons. Please consult the adoption organisation, if you are adopting, for details on a specific cat’s character.
--------------------------------------------------
The Chartreux cat, known for their quiet elegance and gentle disposition, is a beloved breed from France. These medium to large-sized cats have robust, muscular bodies, round faces, and copper or gold-colored eyes. One of the most striking characteristics of the Chartreux is their dense, short, water-resistant blue-gray coat, often described as “wool-like” in texture. Their fur can develop a slightly copper or russet hue as they age.
In terms of temperament, Chartreux cats are known for being affectionate, gentle, and sociable. They tend to form strong bonds with their human companions and are generally good with children and other pets. Despite their calm demeanor, they are intelligent and enjoy interactive play, making them suitable for families and individuals alike. Chartreux cats are often described as “smiling” due to their slightly upturned mouths, adding to their endearing and friendly expression. This breed is relatively low-maintenance in terms of grooming, thanks to their short coat.
When considering a Chartreux kitten, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Chartreux kitten breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
With his cloak of gray fur, sober as a monk’s robes,  it’s no wonder that the Chartreux was associated with the Carthusian order in France. The quiet mousers would have been perfect companions for members of the silent, solitary order. It’s a pretty legend, but there is no real evidence that the cats were kept by the Carthusians, although perhaps they were simply not considered important enough to mention.
A more likely scenario is that the cats, a natural breed, were commonly found in France at least as far back as the 18th century, performing rat patrol in stables, shops and homes. Unfortunately for the beautifully furred felines, they were also prized by furriers for their thick blue pelts. A type of luxurious wool called “pile de Chartreux” may have taken its name from the soft, woolly coated cats.
As with so many breeds, however, it’s not really known how the cats came by their name or how or where they were developed. One of the earliest references to a French gray cat dates to 1558, an epitaph for Belaud, who belonged to poet Joachin de Bellay. Bellay describes Belaud “death to rats,” which is certainly an attribute of the breed, then and now.
The first reference to the name Chartreux for the blue cats is found in the Universal Dictionary of Commerce, Natural History and the Arts and Trade of Savvary of Brusion, published in 1723, which also mentions the cats’ association with the fur trade. French naturalist George-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon, described them as the cat of France and gave them the Latin name Felis catus coeruleus, meaning blue cat.
Free-living groups of the cats lived in Paris and other areas of France until the early 1900s. They were not much valued, except for their skins and their aptitude for vermin control. It wasn’t until after World War I that French cat lovers took steps to preserve the breed. They gathered as many cats as they could and wrote a breed standard. Using only the cats that met the standard and produced kittens that met it, they were able to begin exhibiting the cats in European shows in either 1928 or 1931, depending on the source.
One of the breed’s early adherents was the novelist Colette, whose Chartreux Saha took pride of place in her book La Chatte. General Charles de Gaulle was also known to love the breed, owning one named Gris Gris. It was fortunate that fanciers had begun to breed the Chartreux when they did, because after World War II, none of the free-roaming cats could be found.
Chartreux, which are still uncommon, were first imported into the United States in 1970 and were recognized by the Cat Fanciers Association in 1987. Today the cats are recognized by all major American cat associations. The Chartreux is even the official mascot of the Montreux Jazz Festival. They are less known in Europe, even in their homeland of France. Unlike many cat breeds, they have changed little over the years and remain, as Bellay wrote: “the most handsome perhaps That nature ever made in cat’s clothing.”
The Chartreux typically weighs between 7 and 16 pounds.
The Chartreux might well be compared to a mime, silent but communicative and sometimes silly. Short playtimes interspersed with naps and meals are his idea of the perfect day. When he is not displaying his superb timing and pouncing ability, “killing” toys with abandon, or performing acrobatic flips as he chases a lure toy, he is an attentive and gentle companion who likes to stay near his people and observe their doings.
He appreciates any attention he receives, especially if it involves scratching him beneath the chin or between the ears, but he’s not demanding, content to follow you around devotedly, sleep on your bed and snuggle with you if you’re not feeling well. He rarely uses his voice, preferring to direct your actions with a glance from his pumpkin-colored eyes. If need be, however, he may communicate with a  small meow or chirp.
Make a habit of observing him carefully and being familiar with his actions since it is unlikely that he will vocalize any discomfort or make any sound to let you know where he is. This is an adaptable cat with a middle-of-the-road personality. He’s not a social butterfly, but he’s not a shy wallflower, either. Expect him to watch and wait before deciding whether to greet a guest or otherwise involve himself in a situation.
His calm nature makes him suited to staying home alone while you are out earning the money for his treats and toys, but he won’t object to keeping company with another cat or dog. That same good nature makes him a good travel companion for an RV enthusiast or long-distance truck driver. As long as you keep his routine similar each day, he will be a happy camper.
The Chartreux has a sunny, polite disposition that makes him a pleasure to live with. This is one cat who  does his best to obey the rules. Always treat him kindly and patiently, and you will be rewarded with a friend for life.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Chartreux are generally healthy, but the following problems have been seen in the breed:
The Chartreux’s short, thick coat is easy to care for with weekly brushing. The coat sheds in the spring and may require extra brushing during that time. A bath is rarely necessary. If your Chartreux does require a bath, remember that it can take time to get the water-repellent coat wet enough for bathing.
Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear. Keep the Chartreux’s litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene.
It’s a good idea to keep a Chartreux as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Chartreux who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Chartreux has the sturdy, powerful body of a working cat wrapped in a short, thick, water-repellent coat. Besides his beautiful fur, his most distinctive feature is his deep orange eyes, set in a rounded, broad head. He has full cheeks and a sweet, smiling expression. Medium-size ears sit high on the head.
His body type is sometimes described as primitive, being husky and robust with broad shoulders and a deep chest. His relatively short and fine-boned legs rest on round, medium-size paws that look almost dainty. A lively, flexible tail is heavy at the base, tapering to an oval tip. Don’t let his ample body and solid muscle mass fool you. This is a supple, agile cat who typically weighs 7 to 16 pounds at maturity. Pick him up and you may be surprised by his heft.
Chartreux grow slowly and males especially may not reach their full size until they are 4 or 5 years old. The medium-short double coat has a slightly woolly texture, which varies depending on the cat’s age and gender, as well as the climate in which he lives. For instance, mature males have the heaviest coats, while females or young cats may have a thinner coat or one that feels silky. The coat can be any shade of blue-gray.
The tolerant and gentle Chartreux fits nicely in a home with children. He is more likely to walk away than to scratch if he doesn’t like the way he is being handled. Parents with young children should always supervise interactions to make sure the cat isn’t mistreated.
He is happy to live with cat-friendly dogs, too, thanks to his amiable disposition. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!








Share article
--------------------------------------------------
