Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share
Height:
17 – 19 inches
Weight:
55 – 70 pounds
Lifespan:
10 – 12 years
Colors:
White, pied
Suitable for:
Families of any size, affectionate owners, experienced owners
Temperament:
Friendly, Affectionate, Loving, Calm
These dogs are big sweethearts with a lot of love and affection to go around, and they’ll likely get along with and befriend any member of your family. They love cuddling and human interaction, so they do best in homes where they can get a lot of attention.
Clumber Spaniels can make wonderful family pets for just about any sized family, and that includes those with kids as well as older family members. We’ll discuss everything you should know about these dogs in depth below so you can decide if this big, lumbering giant of a pooch is right for your home!


Clumber Spaniels are highly affectionate and tend to be rather emotionally needy, so these dogs, above all else, will require a lot of attention. Before you dive into owning one of these dogs, you should know that they quickly turn to destructive behavior if they feel they aren’t getting the attention they desire. They do best in homes where there’s always someone around with whom they can spend some quality time.
If you’ve ever met one of these pups, you may have immediately noticed their calm and gentle nature. Many people assume that their relatively low energy throughout the day is indicative of a short amount of required daily exercise. However, these dogs need around an hour a day, so don’t be fooled by how reserved and collected they seem when not exercising.
Lastly, you’ll need to be prepared to clean up after your dog. With long hair, you’re bound to notice quite a bit of shedding, so you should be ready to vacuum regularly and brush your dog often to get rid of loose hair. Perhaps even worse than the shedding is this breed’s tendency to drool. Clumber Spaniels have loose jowls that lead to regular drooling, so if you aren’t wiping drool off your dog’s mouth, you’ll be wiping it off the floor!

Clumber Spaniels are highly intelligent dogs, which is great in most cases. However, these dogs sometimes use their smarts for naughty behavior. They often figure out how to get into refrigerators, cabinets, and other places not suitable for hungry pups in search of treats! You may find you need to install child locks on your cabinets and fridge with a Clumber Spaniel around.
Due to their calm demeanor and low-key personality, the Clumber Spaniel is commonly referred to as the “Retired Gentleman’s Spaniel.” They may have a moderate energy level and fairly high endurance when it comes to exercise, but around the house, they are easy-going and often in a zen-like state.
You may hear traits like “calm” and “zen-like” and never expect that they would be used to describe hunting dogs, but Clumber Spaniels were bred for hunting birds and small game. They’re likely to have a healthy prey drive despite their calm nature.

A post shared by Steve Van Dis (@s_van_dis)

Clumber Spaniels are mild-tempered and tranquil. As long as they get their necessary exercise, they will happily lounge around the house and relax with their owners.
They love human interaction, and they are very affectionate and needy dogs. They are happiest when they get to interact with and spend time with their family members, and they can quickly feel neglected if they’re left alone for too long without attention.
These dogs are friendly and fairly outgoing, and they’ll usually take kindly to meeting and befriending new people.
The Clumber Spaniel is among the best of family pets. They have a ton of love and affection to go around to all family members, and they adore and need attention constantly, so the more people around to offer some, the better! They also enjoy company immensely, so homes where at least one family member is always around are perfect for these pups.
The Clumber Spaniel’s calmness and friendliness also make it an excellent dog for families with children. They are very patient and kind toward kids, even younger ones, and you’ll never have to be concerned that your dog will show any aggression toward any family member, children included.
They will often choose one family member as their “favorite,” and they will form a special bond with this person. However, no one in your family will feel slighted, as your Clumber Spaniel will be happy to spend time with anyone in your home.
The Clumber Spaniel’s friendliness will extend beyond human family members to other dogs as well, especially if they are socialized early and grow up together. They also will very rarely have any issues with unfamiliar dogs they come in contact with, and their calm friendliness will generally extend to all canines.
Because these dogs were bred for hunting small game and birds, they do have a high prey drive. For this reason, Clumber Spaniels are not recommended for homes with cats, rodents, or pet birds, as they will likely be seen as prey to be chased or retrieved. Early socialization may help a little, but their instinct to catch small game won’t be trained away entirely.

Given their size, you may be surprised to find out that Clumber Spaniels need two to three cups of dry dog food a day. These pups have a healthy appetite, so the cost of food is something you’ll need to consider when deciding if this breed is right for you.
It’s also probably surprising to hear that Clumber Spaniel puppies often need even more than their adult counterparts! Puppies can easily eat between four and six cups of food per day while they’re growing. Their appetite may not taper off so much when they hit their target height and weight, so be careful not to overfeed your pooch once they hit adulthood.
Despite their calm demeanor at home, Clumber Spaniels still need daily exercise to remain happy and healthy. You should expect to set aside around an hour a day to walk or run with your pup. As often as possible, this exercise should be done on soft surfaces like grass or dirt, as these dogs often suffer from joint issues.
Your Clumber Spaniel will likely lounge around if you let them, so it’s important not to take their willingness to relax all day as a sign that your dog doesn’t need to exercise. These dogs, like many others, can experience additional health problems including weight gain and obesity if they don’t get their daily exercise.
Lastly, because Clumber Spaniels have a high prey drive, you need to make sure that they are always on a secure and strong harness and leash when exercising outdoors. They may try to back out of their collar or harness and go on the hunt if they see a rabbit, squirrel, or other small animal during walks or runs.
Like we mentioned earlier, Clumber Spaniels are highly intelligent. They’re also eager to please their owners, and these traits combined make for a very obedient and easy-to-train dog. They will pick up on commands, tricks, and the rules of your household quickly and with ease.

A post shared by Clarence & Clarke 🐶 (@clarence_the_clumber)

However, these dogs will also gladly assume the leadership position in your home if no one else does. It won’t take much effort to establish yourself as an authoritative figure for them, but you will need to establish your dominance and let your pooch know who the boss is.
Once you have assumed the leadership role, your pup will happily obey you, and only some casual reminders of your leadership will be necessary.
Grooming your Clumber Spaniel will take some time and effort, as their long hair can be a bit challenging at times. You will need to do regular brushing about two to three times a week with a pin brush or de-shedder — this will help cut down on shedding a bit and keep their coats healthy and shiny. Keep in mind that you won’t avoid shedding altogether, so do plan on vacuuming up loose hair regularly as well.
Drooling is another messy habit that Clumber Spaniels can’t avoid, so you’ll find yourself wiping your dog’s jowls clean several times a day. Even with this maintenance, you may need to clean drool up off of your floors regularly as well. Their cute, droopy faces make the cleaning worth it!
Bathing can be done once every six to eight weeks, and more frequent baths should be avoided, as they can lead to dry skin and fur.
You’ll want to clean around your dog’s eyes and wipe their ears clean at least once a week, as this will help reduce infection. You should also plan to brush your pup’s teeth about once a week as well to prevent tooth and gum issues.
Lastly, always keep your dog’s nails properly trimmed, as long nails can lead to cracking, breaking, discomfort, and infection.
Thankfully, Clumber Spaniels are pretty hearty dogs that don’t experience many health issues, and those that are common are not life-threatening. You should still make sure to take your pooch to the vet about once a year for checkups and be on the lookout for the below issues, especially those related to their eyes.

Male Clumber Spaniels do tend to have a bit more energy and may exhibit a higher prey drive. For the most part, your dog will be sociable and calm regardless of their gender. Males do tend to be larger than females, and they can stand up to three inches taller and weigh in about 15 pounds heavier.

Clumber Spaniels are exceptionally friendly, loving, and affectionate dogs who make wonderful additions to families of all sizes. They will get along with any member of your household, including kids and other dogs.
They thrive on human interaction and will always want to be a part of what your family is doing. They love attention, will always seek it out, and can easily feel neglected if they don’t get enough. They also do best in homes where they always have some company.
These lumbering dogs are great for first-time dog owners, as they are easy to train and fairly easy to groom. If you’re able and willing to keep up with their shedding and drooling, you’d find it difficult to choose a better companion dog for you and your family!
See also:
Featured Image Credit: Lenkadan, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
Can Cats Eat Kale? Vet-Reviewed Nutrition Facts & FAQ
4 Homemade Grain-Free Cat Treat Recipes (Vet Approved)
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Cats
Cats
Info
© All Rights Reserved Hepper 2025
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
-

Below, we look at Clumber Spaniel dog breed, its history, personality, pros and cons of owning an Clumber Spaniel, characteristics, and must-know facts. We will also examine how to care for this breed and much more. Prepare for a tail-wagging adventure into the world of Clumber Spaniels!
The Clumber Spaniel has an interesting story associated with it. Legend has it that during the French Revolution, the French Duc de Noailles sent his Spaniels to the Duke of Newcastle in England to protect them. Although there isn’t much evidence to support this tale, a painting from 1788 shows the Duke of Newcastle with lemon and white dogs that strongly resemble the Clumber Spaniel we know today. This breed got its name from Clumber Park, the Duke of Newcastle’s estate in Nottingham, England. Originally, it was called the Clumber Park Spaniel.
The Clumber Spaniel gained popularity among royalty and nobility. Prince Edward of Wales was a big fan and kept these dogs at his Sandringham House estate. Prince Albert, King Edward VII, and King George V also favored the breed. The Clumber Spaniel made its way to North America in 1844 when Lieutenant Venables, a British officer, brought one to his station in Nova Scotia, Canada. In 1878, the American Kennel Club registered the first Clumber Spaniel, making it one of the first nine breeds recognized by the AKC. Today, the Clumber Spaniel is considered a rare breed and is recognized as a sporting dog, ranking 122 out of 155 breeds registered with the AKC.

Large, strong, and with broad feet, the Clumber Spaniel is a breed of dog. Typically, it is white with yellow or orange patterns. This athletic breed has a double coat; the outer coat is weatherproof and the undercoat is thick. With some feathering at the chest, legs, tail, and ears, the coat is straight and flat. The eyes are often drooping, and the ears are floppy by nature. Markings are often seen on the face and ears with a frill around the neck. Their feathered coat is often thick, straight, and velvety to the touch. On the mostly white coat, lemon markings are preferable, but orange markings are also acceptable. The Clumber Spaniel’s size and form make it ideal for navigating through grass and bushes to flush out pheasants and partridges.
⚡ Fun Fact: Clumber Spaniel dogs are a social breed. They enjoy being around people or other animals. This breed doesn’t tolerate being left alone.
The Clumber Spaniel is renowned for being calm, affectionate, perceptive, and generally nice. They are loving and laid back. They become less active as they age. When nurtured around kids and other animals, they get along particularly well. They need to start out socializing at an early age. Although they are not extremely domineering, if they notice that their owner is being submissive, they could try to take the initiative. They are lively, trustworthy, and friendly; they do not frequently bark. They want a cool, collected boss who enforces rules consistently. Since they have good memory and a desire to please their masters, they are simple to train. Since they like to chew, having chew toys is essential. They are good water dogs and like pheasant and partridge hunting.
Clumber Spaniel dogs tend to get along well with other pets, but they may not be the most comfortable around strangers. However, they are generally friendly and good with kids, making them a suitable choice for families with children. They have an average level of friendliness towards cats and are very dog-friendly, making them a great choice for those looking to have multiple dogs or participate in dog meetups. Additionally, Clumber Spaniels are often recommended for elderly individuals due to their temperament and demeanor.
This breed is known for being:
Regular grooming is necessary to maintain the Clumber Spaniel’s healthy coat. You should brush two to three times each week; occasionally, you may also need to cut the coat. Regular cleaning of the ears and eyes is also necessary, and those two regions should receive special care. Unfortunately, Clumber Spaniels shed a lot of hair and drool a lot as well. Clumbers may live well in apartments, although they do require at least 20 minutes of daily activity. They do adore swimming. Although they are reasonably simple to housebreak, it is advised that they also be trained to utilize a crate when you must be away from home. Even once they grow out of the puppy period, Clumber Spaniels do have a propensity for mischief and getting into things they shouldn’t. But as they become older, they become less active.
Clumber Spaniel dogs have a tendency to shed a lot of hair, which is a normal part of their hair growth cycle. This means that you will need to be prepared for frequent vacuuming to keep your home clean. The amount and frequency of shedding can vary depending on the dog’s overall health and the specific breed. Additionally, Clumber Spaniels generally require a bath every 4-6 weeks to keep their coat clean and healthy.
🍖 Food: We recommend 2.8 cups daily, costing you about $1.50 – $1.90 daily, or approximately $39.00 – $52.00 a month.
🐾 Exercise: Clumber Spaniel dogs need quite a lot of exercise. Daily walks should be on schedule. If you live an active life, this breed can be a good choice for you.
This dog breed requires to be walked for roughly 8 miles per week, which equates to about 60 minutes of physical activity daily. This consistent moderate exercise regimen will help maintain their physical wellness and significantly contribute to their mental stimulation. Consciously setting aside this time for your furry friend can dramatically enhance their life quality, helping them stay energetic, healthy, and mentally alert.
Did you know: Clumber Spaniel dogs have an average energy level, so if you live a semi-active life, this breed can be a good choice for you.
Some of the major concerns for Clumber Spaniel Dog Breed can be:
While minor concerns include:
🤧 Important: Is Clumber Spaniel hypoallergenic? No.
✨ Bonus: Check out cool, creative, and funny names for Clumber Spaniel.
What makes the Clumber Spaniel a great choice for families with young children?
 The Clumber Spaniel is a great choice for families with young children because they are known to be docile, sweet, and very affectionate. They are easygoing and playful, making them a perfect companion for kids. Additionally, they are not overly dominant and they do well with children, especially if they are raised together.
Is the Clumber Spaniel breed considered a suitable breed for apartment living?
 The Clumber Spaniel breed is not considered suitable for apartment living due to their size. Although they are of medium height, they are still rather large dogs and need space to move around comfortably. They may feel restricted in a small living space and require a yard or open area to exercise properly.
How much exercise does a Clumber Spaniel require compared to other breeds?
 Compared to other breeds, the Clumber Spaniel requires a moderate amount of exercise. They enjoy daily walks and playtime, but they are not as high-energy as some other breeds. They are more laid-back and become less active as they get older. However, regular exercise is still important to keep them mentally and physically stimulated.
Is the Clumber Spaniel breed known for being good with other pets?
 The Clumber Spaniel breed is known for being good with other pets, especially if they are socialized from a young age. They have a friendly and easygoing nature, which allows them to get along well with other animals. They do well with other dogs and can coexist peacefully with cats and other small pets if introduced properly.
What are other low-maintenance dog breeds similar to the Clumber Spaniel?
 Some low-maintenance dog breeds similar to the Clumber Spaniel include the Basset Hound and the Cavalier King Charles Spaniel. These breeds also have a sweet and gentle temperament, are easy to train, and do well with children and other pets.
What are the common health issues that Clumber Spaniels are prone to?
 Clumber Spaniels are prone to certain health issues, including hip dysplasia, intervertebral disc disease, and eye problems such as entropion and ectropion. They are also known to be prone to obesity, so it is important to monitor their diet and exercise to prevent weight gain.
Are Clumber Spaniels known to be easy to train compared to other breeds?
 Clumber Spaniels are generally considered easy to train compared to some other breeds. They have good memories and a strong desire to please their owners, which makes them receptive to training. They are intelligent and can learn commands and tricks relatively quickly.
Are Clumber Spaniels more prone to separation anxiety compared to other breeds?
 Clumber Spaniels do have a tendency to develop separation anxiety if left alone for long periods of time. They are social dogs and thrive on human companionship, so being left alone for extended periods can cause them distress. It is important to provide them with mental stimulation and company to prevent separation anxiety.
Are there any dog breeds similar to the Clumber Spaniel that are suitable for people with allergies?
 Some dog breeds similar to the Clumber Spaniel that are suitable for people with allergies include the Portuguese Water Dog, the Bichon Frise, and the Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier. These breeds have hair instead of fur, which reduces the amount of allergens they produce.
What sizes of dogs similar to the Clumber Spaniel are best for individuals or families with limited space?
 For individuals or families with limited space, smaller-sized dogs similar to the Clumber Spaniel may be a better fit. Breeds such as the Cavalier King Charles Spaniel and the Cocker Spaniel are smaller in size but still share some of the same characteristics as the Clumber Spaniel, such as being good with children and other pets.
Is the Clumber Spaniel breed known to be good with children with special needs?
 The Clumber Spaniel breed is known to be good with children, including those with special needs. Their gentle and sweet nature makes them patient and understanding, which can be beneficial for children who require extra attention or have specific needs.
How does the grooming and shedding needs of the Clumber Spaniel?
 The grooming and shedding needs of the Clumber Spaniel are moderate. They do shed and require regular brushing to keep their coat in good condition. However, their coat is not as high-maintenance as some other breeds. They have a dense, weather-resistant coat that may need occasional trimming, but overall they are relatively low-maintenance in terms of grooming.
We use reliable and publicly available data and resources such as AKC and American Canine Registry to ensure that Clumber Spaniel dog breed information is accurate and up to date. If you spot an error, please don’t hesitate to bring it to our attention.
--------------------------------------------------
Jim
Updated on: November 30, 2023
Did you know that the Clumber Spaniel is the largest of the AKC flushing spaniels? This breed, with its dignified and mellow nature, has been a hunting companion of kings. It’s no wonder that they’ve garnered such attention and admiration over the years. In 2022, the Kennel Club reported that 232 Clumber Spaniels were registered in the UK, underscoring the breed’s enduring appeal. The American Kennel Club ranks the Clumber Spaniel at 139 out of 200 breeds.
Now, let’s dive deep into the world of Clumber Spaniels, shedding light on their history, traits, and what makes them so special. By the end of this guide, you’ll be well-equipped with knowledge that’ll help you nurture a strong bond with your furry friend.
The Clumber Spaniel boasts a rich history that traces its roots back to France. Over the years, this breed has been a dignified & mellow hunting companion, even for kings! Their stature – built long and low with heavy bone – makes them stand out.
Here are some major historical events related to the Clumber Spaniel:
Clumber Spaniel – a breed that’s been the companion of kings & still stands as the largest of the AKC flushing spaniels. It is not just about their size, these dogs possess a dignified & mellow disposition that’s hard to miss. For those of you who don’t mind a little shedding and perhaps the occasional drool, the Clumber Spaniel might just become an amusing best friend & housemate. Known for their sweet and easygoing nature at home, but – and this is a surprise to many – when outdoors, these dogs get quite relentless, especially if they catch a scent.
When it comes to interacting with humans, Spaniels are truly a treat. They’re friendly, yet there’s a slight hesitancy around strangers. It may remind you of a time when you met someone new & took a moment to warm up.  Once they get to know you, it’s all in. Looking for a sturdy playmate for your child? Or perhaps a companion that’s up for a good swim or a game of fetch? The Clumber Spaniel is definitely your go-to animal.
Comparison of Temperament With other Spaniels:
The Clumber Spaniel – truly a sight you won’t forget. With a powerful build and heavy bone structure, combined with a design that’s long and low, they easily draw the eye.  Their massive head is a standout feature, and they stand tall at 17 to 20 inches. When it comes to weight, a small female might tip the scales at 55 pounds, while a large male could go up to 85 pounds. Built to push through thick cover in the field. Their movement is free and easy, even surprising considering their hefty build.
As for the coat – it’s dense and primarily white. But you know those times when you notice a subtle accent colour that just elevates the entire look? That’s the effect of their sparse lemon or orange markings. The range of colours you might come across includes:
Their appearance is not just about beauty; it’s functional. Designed for the field, they can push through thickets and underbrush with ease, making them excellent hunting companions.
You’ll find training your Clumber Spaniel mostly delightful, given their affectionate and loyal nature. These dogs are intelligent & have a strong desire to please you. But there’s a catch – their gentle temperament often comes with a touch of stubbornness. Now, don’t let that push you away. With the right steps, you’ll have that Clumber Spaniel trained in no time.
Training a dog for the first time can be a daunting task, especially with a breed as unique as the Clumber Spaniel. Here are some common challenges faced by first-time trainers and solutions to overcome them:
The Clumber Spaniel, with its sturdy build and calm demeanour, has specific exercise needs that cater to its unique physique & temperament. While they might seem laid-back at first, you’ll be surprised how much these dogs enjoy a good romp – they really do need regular daily exercise (between one and two hours) to keep them fit and healthy. Their exercise regimen should be a mix of mental stimulation and physical activity, you know? If Spaniels don’t get regular exercise you may find they bark more or exhibit more restless behaviour.
Top 5 Recommended Exercises for Clumber Spaniels:
Exercise Tips for Urban Dwellers:
Living in the city doesn’t mean your Clumber Spaniel can’t get the exercise it needs. You know, even with all the hustle and bustle, there are ways to ensure they remain active & happy:
The Clumber Spaniel, with its mellow & dignified nature, really thrives in a home that gets its unique needs. Originating as hunting companions – these dogs have transitioned beautifully as loving family pets you’d adore. Their calm nature fits just right in both city apartments & country homes. But remember, they need ample space to stretch their legs and roam. They’re quite adaptable, you know, but they do have their likes.
An ideal owner for a Clumber Spaniel? It’s someone who can balance regular exercise, mental fun, & heaps of love. If you’ve ever had a routine-loving pet, you’d know how important it is. They’re not super demanding, but consistency in routine and soft touch in training goes a long way with them.
Clumber Spaniel Needs vs. Ideal Owner Characteristics:
Clumber Spaniels, with their easy going nature, are generally the kind you’d see getting along with other pets. But, you know, their hunting instincts can sometimes kick in, especially around the tinier critters. So, it is always a good idea to introduce them to other pets in a controlled setup – just to ensure everyone gets along.
Common Pets Clumber Spaniels Get Along With:
Pets They Might Have Issues With:
When bringing a Clumber Spaniel into a house with other animals, monitoring their initial interactions is the key. With time and the right training, they usually settle in, living peacefully with a good mix of other pets.
This breed, the Clumber Spaniel, is indeed heftier & much more substantial compared to other Spaniel breeds. Their legs might be on the shorter side, but you’d be wrong to think of them as anything but large, strong dogs. Their chilled-out approach to life? It’s kind of what sets them apart.
Table: Clumber Spaniel Male & Female Weight
When we talk about grooming, Clumber Spaniels have their unique needs. Imagine a lush coat, silky and straight, but with longer hairs (we call it feathering) on their legs & chest. If you neglect it, there can be tangles. And let’s not even start about the drool or how they shed! But if you’ve had a dog before, you’d know with the right care routine, even the messiest pooch can look pristine.
Step-by-step Grooming Routine for Clumber Spaniels:
Clumber Spaniel is unique in its dietary needs as it is in its appearance. If you’re the proud pet parent of one of these gentle giants, you’ll know that feeding them right is crucial for their overall well-being.
Dietary needs of the breed:
These dogs have a big appetite. Given how active they get, especially when they’re prancing around outdoors, they need food that matches their energy. But here’s the thing – keep an eye on how much they gobble up. They have this knack for gaining weight if you overfeed. So, what to feed them? Think proteins, essential fats and just the right amount of carbs. And while they’d gladly eat all day, it’s about feeding them right, not just feeding them more.
Recommended foods & feeding schedules:
Are you thinking about mixing things up for them? High-quality commercial dog food combined with some natural goodies like lean meats, fish, rice, and certain veggies might just be the ticket. But if you’re making big changes, chatting with your vet is a smart move. As for the feeding schedule, twice a day usually works for the adults. But those little pups, they’re growing, so they’ll need a bit more on their plate.
Comparison of Dog Foods for Clumber Spaniels:
When it comes to the health of Clumber Spaniels, there’s a mix of good news and challenges. While they’re generally robust, certain health issues are more prevalent in this breed.
Common Health Issues in Clumber Spaniels:
Clumber Spaniels are quite the shedding and drooling champs. But, just like any other member of your family, it’s essential to ensure they’re well taken care of, especially when it comes to their health.
Why Pet Insurance is a Must for Clumber Spaniels
Ever been told, “Better safe than sorry”? Well, with your Clumber Spaniel, it’s more like a mantra. Given their unique shape & quirks, they sometimes face specific health troubles that can lead to expensive vet visits. That’s where pet insurance jumps in – it’s like a safety net, making sure you’re ready for unexpected vet visits & health hiccups.
Factors to Consider When Choosing an Insurance Plan
So you’re set on a Clumber Spaniel to join the family? Nice pick! But hold on – before you dive too deep into this doggie adventure, finding a reputable or assured breeder is essential. The breeder you go with? They’re a big part of how healthy & happy your future furball will be.
Why Kennel Club Registered Breeders are the Gold Standard
Heard of The Kennel Club? They’re like the big league in the dog world. If you pick a breeder who’s Kennel Club registered, you’re ensuring you’re with someone sticking to top-notch standards in breeding & care. These breeders? They care. They make sure their dogs get love, right from the get-go.
Red Flags to Watch Out For
Kennel Club Registered Breeders vs. Non-Registered Breeders: A Comparison
Have you ever felt that pull towards a lovable breed like the Clumber Spaniel? With its soft temperament & loving personality, it’s a tough one to resist. But before you go buying a puppy, have you considered adopting or rescuing?
The Importance of Adopting and Rescuing Clumber Spaniels
Every year, tons of dogs find themselves in shelters or with rescue groups, hoping for that second shot at a loving home. And Clumber Spaniels? They’re in the mix too. Going the adopt or rescue route, you’re doing a double good deed – giving a pooch a fresh start & saying a big no to those not-so-cool breeding practices.
Supporting Local Rescue Organisations
Local rescue organisations play a pivotal role in rehabilitating and rehoming dogs in need. If you throw them some support – be it donations, volunteering or adopting – you help ensure these dogs get what they deserve: Care, love & attention.
Steps to Follow When Considering Adopting a Clumber Spaniel:
Have you ever gazed at a Clumber Spaniel and thought about its potential mix with other breeds? Clumber Spaniels, with their one-of-a-kind look & undeniable charm, often mix with other breeds, resulting in some unique canine creations. The beauty of mixed breeds is they often bring together the best of both worlds, giving you a pet that’s both endearing & one-of-a-kind.
Popular Clumber Spaniel Mixed Breeds:
Diving into the world of the Clumber Spaniel is like opening a box of assorted chocolates. From tales of being adored by the British elite to their naturally sweet & gentle nature, there’s a ton to adore here. Whether adoption, rescue, or getting one of those intriguing mixed breeds tickles your fancy, one thing is clear – with a Clumber Spaniel around, you’re signing up for a whole lot of warmth & cuddles.
Sources:
Spaniel Ace is a trading name of Twelve Notes Ltd © 2025
--------------------------------------------------
The largest of all spaniels, the Clumber Spaniel is a dog fit for a king. And indeed, much of the breed’s early history centers around French and British nobility.


Although not as fast as most other breeds of spaniels, the Clumber has great stamina and is able to trot along at a slow gait for hours on end. It is also a highly intelligent dog capable of independent thinking. These characteristics make it an excellent hunting dog; a task the breed was used for prominently amongst the British aristocracy. They are also gentle and loving and make excellent pets as well.

The largest of all spaniels, the Clumber Spaniel is a dog fit for a king. And indeed, much of the breed’s early history centers around French and British nobility.


Although their exact history is unclear, it is widely believed that Clumber Spaniels originated from the gun dogs bred by the French nobility in the early 1600s. One theory of origin goes onto state that the French Duc de Noailles, under threat from the French Revolution, gave away his prized kennel of hunting dogs to the Duke of Newcastle at Clumber Park. It is believed that the breed was developed and perfected here by the Duke’s gamekeeper William Mansel. However, it is certain that the breed derives its name from Clumber Park.

The breed enjoyed great patronage from various British Royals, including Queen Victoria’s consort Prince Albert and his son King Edward VII. Queen Victoria mentions the breed in her diary as follows:

“Walked out directly after breakfast before Albert went to shoot. He had his 7 fine Clumber Spaniels with us and we went into the Slopes, with such a funny old Gamekeeper, Walters, in order that I should see how the dogs found out their game. They are such dear, nice dogs.”

The breeding of Clumber Spaniels was restricted to British nobility up until the mid 19th century, and was halted completely during World War I. This caused their numbers to drop drastically and it took the efforts of King George V to rejuvenate the breed.

It is believed that the Clumber Spaniel’s ancestry includes blood from the now extinct Alpine Spaniel, the Basset Hound and the St. Bernard.


Clumber Spaniel puppies are highly active and often have voracious appetites. Their metabolism slows down significantly once the dogs reach adulthood and should be fed on two meals of high quality dog food a day.

Clumber Spaniels are hard working, intelligent dogs and are eager to please.


Clumber Spaniels are hard working, intelligent dogs and are eager to please. Therefore most positive reinforcement techniques work excellently with the breed. They can be trained to hunt and retrieve game quite easily.


Clumber Spaniel males range in weight from 70-85 pounds.

Clumber Spaniels are regarded as one of the more laid-back breeds of spaniels and have gentle, easygoing temperaments. They are however highly intelligent and independent, and may turn willful when not given proper leadership. Like most intelligent working breeds, Clumber Spaniels respond well to the leadership of calm, assertive owners.

Clumber Spaniels are playful and get along excellently with children. They also coexist peacefully with other dogs and other animals. They can however be aloof with strangers and efforts should be taken to socialize them early on in life.

These dogs are not barkers and do not make good guard dogs.


Clumber Spaniels are a generally healthy breed of dog. However, they are prone to ailments such as hip dysplasia elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism and von Willebrand’s disease.


A well cared for Clumber Spaniel will enjoy a lifespan of 10-12 years.


Clumber Spaniel puppies are highly playful and have a great deal of energy. They however slow down significantly as they age and aren’t very active as adults. This makes them unsuitable for active, athletic owners that enjoy jogging and hiking with their dogs. However, they do require at least an hour of walking exercise each day. They also enjoy carrying things in their mouth as it gives them a meaningful task to be engaged with.

Clumber Spaniels are regarded as one of the more laid-back breeds of spaniels and have gentle, easygoing temperaments.


The Clumber Spaniel was one of the first 9 breeds to be recognized by the AKC in 1884. The AKC has this to say about the breed: “One of the original nine breeds registered by the AKC, the Clumber Spaniel’s long and low build is particularly unique among spaniels. Although not as speedy as other sporting dogs, the Clumber will work all day, trotting along in his signature slow, rolling gait. He may appear dignified and pensive, but he possesses great enthusiasm for both work and play. The breed possesses a beautiful white coat and may have lemon or orange-colored markings.”


Like all spaniels, the Clumber Spaniels coat is thick, straight and soft to the touch. They do shed quite a bit and should be groomed regularly with a brush and comb. Some trimming of the coat may be required on occasion.


Clumber Spaniel puppies are highly active and will romp around happily for the most part of the day. Their training should begin early and they should be socialized with other dogs and humans as early as possible.

Photo credit: Томасина/Wikimedia; Pleple2000/Wikimedia
Amy Tokic, Editor of PetGuide.com, is a passionate animal lover and proud pet parent of Oscar, a Shih Tzu/Chihuahua cross, and Zed, a Japanese Chin. Her love of animals began in kindergarten, when she brought her stuffed dog Snoopy into class with her every day. Now, she writes about her adventures in pet ownership and tirelessly researches products, news and health related issues she can share with other animal enthusiasts. In her free time, Amy loves perusing used book and record stores, obsessing over the latest pet products available and chasing squirrels with wild abandon (a habit attributed to spending too much time with her pooches).
More by Amy Tokic
This year’s National Dog Show took place at the Greater Philadelphia Expo Center in Oaks, Pennsylvania on November 28, and just like every year, it was a special event featuring many talented canines. But what made this year’s event even more noteworthy was the fact that a Pug was named Best in Show.
Spaniel breeds are a group of hunting and retrieving dogs, or more precisely, gun dogs. This means that they were originally bred for assisting hunters in tracking down and capturing all types of game, but mostly birds, whether on land or on water. Of course, as time passed, the breeds evolved, and now many of the Spaniel breeds are now loved as family pets for their intelligence, friendly disposition, and love for adventure. In addition to the classic spaniel breeds that fit in the gun dog or bird dog category, there are also “faux” spaniel breeds – dogs that have the name Spaniel in their name but weren’t bred for hunting and retrieving – as well as designer dogs which are spaniel mixes. To learn more about all of these magnificent dogs, dive with us into the diverse world of spaniel breeds and meet some of the most popular spaniels around!&nbsp;
Clumber Lab Basics
The beautiful, sturdy Clumber Lab is a hybrid that comes from exceptional stock; the gentle Labrador Retriever and the impressive Clumber Spaniel. Both were originally bred for sport, which means you have a dog who loves to be active, but is highly obedient, keen-to-please and therefore easy to train. While the Clumber Lab will require regular exercise, it won&rsquo;t be excessive and can be easily managed by an older child who is trained on how to properly handle a dog on a leash. If there is a downside to this fantastic little fur-kid, it would be that he may have inherited the Clumber spaniel&rsquo;s tendency to snore and to drool.
The Clumber Lab is a hybrid of Labrador Retriever and Clumber Spaniel.
Origin
Clumberdoodle Basics
The Clumberdoodle is a great looking hybrid dog that embodies all of the best features of the Clumber Spaniel and the Poodle. These smart and loyal dogs are known for their endearing personality, their playful nature, and their gentle disposition. They are ideal for all types of families, and they are one-of-a-kind dogs that are sure to bring anyone joy, thanks to their cheerful and alert temperament.
Below is a bit of helpful information about the Clumberdoodle. Check it out to learn more about this breed and determine if it would be the right fit for your household.
The Clumberdoodle is a cross between a purebred Clumber Spaniel and Poodle.
Origin  
The Clumberdoodle is a designer crossbreed whose origins are not entirely clear.
Pedigree
That round tummy may need some attention.
Although you might be familiar with the Sphynx cat, there are other hairless breeds that are just as intriguing and worth checking out if you want to add a rare hairless kitty to your household. Here are four hairless cat breeds and some of their distinctive features.
Address Problems and Improve Your Cat’s Life with a Cat BehavioristIf you’re concerned about your cat’s behavior, please don’t hesitate to seek help. Early intervention can make a significant difference in your cat’s health and well-being. After all, many of these behaviors are rooted in your cat’s mental and emotional health due to stress, anxiety, fear, and other factors.Most cat behavior problems can be addressed and resolved with patience, consistency, and a little professional guidance. With the right support, your cat can overcome whatever challenges they face and thrive! Join the PetGuide community. Get the latest pet news and product recommendations by subscribing to our newsletter  here.
Sharing your heart and your home with a pet is a rewarding experience. But before you jump into adopting a new friend or gifting a furry companion this holiday season, you need to be aware of the financial responsibilities of pet ownership.While the initial costs of adopting a dog or cat might be relatively low, ongoing expenses can add up over time.Food and veterinary care are often the most significant costs of pet ownership. High-quality food tailored to your pet&#39;s size and breed is essential, as are regular vet check-ups, vaccinations, and dental cleanings. Unexpected illnesses or injuries can also lead to significant vet bills, making a dedicated pet savings account crucial.Let’s break down the costs associated with being a pet parent…The True Cost of Owning a Dog or CatOften, when people consider adding a pet to their family for the first time, they focus solely on the cost of adoption. Finding a pet being rehomed for a low price or even given away “free to a good home” appears to be a low-cost and easy decision. However, this overlooks the expenses you commit to for the next 10-15 years (or longer).To help you make an educated decision on whether you are ready for the responsibilities of adding a pet to your family, here are the costs to consider: Recurring Annual Costs of Owning a PetMany costs related to owning a pet are guaranteed, recurring, and predictable. These are the costs associated with providing your best friend with the basic necessities of life, as well as some additional costs you can incur while improving your new pet’s quality of life.FoodAccording to a report from Rover, the average monthly cost of feeding a dog will range from $45 to $345.The exact cost to feed your new pet will depend on several factors, including their size, activity levels, and unique nutritional needs. Plus, when shopping for pet food, you’ll find that the cost can vary significantly from brand to brand.From wet foods to kibble, commercial diets to raw feeding – there are many options to consider. There are many low-cost foods, but the purchase price may not be the best indicator of whether they will be budget-friendly in the long term. The feeding guidelines on lower-quality foods often suggest feeding larger amounts to ensure your pet gets the same nutrients. This means they will finish the bag faster, requiring you to buy food more often.Failing to meet your pet’s nutritional needs will directly impact their overall health and well-being. This often means higher veterinary bills throughout their life.Regular Veterinary CareSpeaking of veterinary bills, there are ongoing costs here as well. There is a very wide range of costs associated with veterinary care depending on your pet’s age, previous veterinary care, preventative care, and more. At the very least, you must budget for your pet’s annual vet exam, necessary vaccinations, and dental care. Vet costs also vary from state to state.According to Care Credit, the average cost of a routine vet visit ranges from $50-250. Additionally, other costs you will need to consider include:Heartworm Testing: $35-50Heartworm Prevention: $9-11/monthCore Dog Vaccinations (Rabies & DHPP): $40-90Core Cat Vaccinations (Rabies & FVRCP): $40-70While not required, other vet-related costs that you may also face include non-core vaccinations (such as Bordetella, Lyme, Leptospirosis, Parainfluenza, Feline Leukemia or Chlamydophila Felis), flea and tick prevention, or optional blood work recommended at specific stages of your pet’s life.GroomingYour new pet’s grooming requirements may range from easy home maintenance to extensive grooming appointments. This will depend on their species/breed and coat type. For short-haired dogs and cats, this could be as simple as brushing and nail trimming, which can be done at home (if your pet will tolerate it).However, those with longer coats may need further care, like bathing and hair clipping.A professional groomer can handle all these services, including ear cleaning and sometimes teeth brushing. However, the cost can range from $30-100 or more per session. How frequently you need to book a grooming session will also vary. Most groomers recommend rebooking approximately every 4 to 8 weeks, depending on the pet’s specific needs.Pet Sitters/DaycareNot every pet parent will need to pay for pet sitters or daycare; it depends on your schedule and lifestyle. If your work keeps you away from the house for extended periods or you like to travel, this is a necessary expense to consider.The amount of time your pet can stay home alone will depend on several factors, including age, health, and energy level. The average adult dog or cat can be home alone for 8-10 hours or a standard workday. But this may be too long for puppies still going through the potty-training experience or senior pups who need to go to the bathroom more frequently.Dog daycare facilities cost $35-50/day on average. This assumes your pet is comfortable and well-behaved in this setting. If you need a pet sitter for a dog or cat, you can expect to pay approximately $20-30 for a single-pet drop-in visit. These costs will be higher if you have multiple pets, live in a more remote location, or expect the sitter to stay for a longer visit (or overnight).Training The cost of dog training will vary significantly, influenced by your location, the level of training your pup needs, and your chosen training approach. The secret to success is prioritizing training before their behavior becomes a concern.Basic obedience or puppy training classes generally range from $150-250 for a 4-6 session course. This is for dogs who have not previously completed basic training, creating a foundation for good behavior. It is not, however, the approach for addressing problem behaviors that have developed and need more specialized focus.Private 1-on-1 classes will be more expensive, costing approximately $100-150 per hour in most locations. This cost can run considerably higher for more intensive training or serious behavioral concerns. This includes dogs with severe separation anxiety, aggression, reactivity, and other destructive or potentially dangerous behaviors.Other ExpensesBeyond the above-listed costs, there are several other expenses to consider. This includes items like collars, leashes, harnesses, treats, toys, chews (for entertainment and dental health), pet beds, carriers, and other products needed to create the quality of life you envision for your new family member.
Think doggie daycare meets petting zoo and you&#39;ll get the picture.
Cockapoos are known as one of the most popular hybrid dog breeds. Thanks to their intelligent nature and friendly demeanor, they are adored across the globe. A distinct mixture of a playful  Poodle and a gentle  Cocker Spaniel, these dogs are very energetic and fun. And this is exactly why exercise is so important for these pooches – it ensures a Cockapoo remains healthy and mentally stimulated. Without regular exercise, many things can go awry for these doggos. This is why you should know just how much exercise is enough for a Cockapoo, and make sure you provide a balanced daily routine for your little furry friend. How Much Exercise Does a Cockapoo Need?Even though these dogs are energetic, they are not considered sporting dogs. This means that, on average, they will be quite content with around 30 to 60 minutes of quality physical activity each day. But even so, the exact amount of time will depend on several factors, such as the dog’s age, size, and energy levels. Some dogs simply love to chill, relax, or snooze, while others prefer to zoom about to no end and that stands true for Cockapoos, too. After all, it is only natural that a young Cockapoo will need more physical activity, and an older one prefers short and less intense exercise sessions. Of course, exercise is not all about running about and jumping through hoops. There is also mental stimulation. While running, walking, and good playing will help burn that extra energy and maintain a slim physique, certain games and  special dog puzzle toys will help keep their minds sharp and healthy as well.
February is designated as National Pet Dental Health Month, but the truth is that your pet’s oral health should be something you focus on every month of the year. Periodontal disease (gum disease) affects a surprising number of dogs, including those who are young, and other dental problems, like chipped or broken teeth, can also arise.
(photo credit: Ryan Brix / shutterstock.com)When we think of aging pets, we envision dogs that have slowed down a little, love to nap and prefer to settle into a sunny spot over a vigorous walk. I admit that these days, my 13- and 15-year-old Schnoodles are less inclined to get excited when I pick up their leash than they were just a couple of years back. So, their outings are shorter and treats are doled out as a reward for making the effort when we return home.But there’s so much more to your pet’s aging than just a slower gait and desire to curl up and snooze away the afternoon. Vision starts to fade, hearing is not quite so acute and often, their teeth and gums begin to cause problems.That said, every so often we see the puppy come out when they get excited about something special – a high-value treat, another dog, your return from work, or a fun new toy that he can still enjoy despite his physical limitations. And those are the moments we want to continue creating by adapting their arsenal of playthings to meet their changing needs.
(photo credit: Gudman / shutterstock.com)I was raised to believe you shouldn’t bathe a dog because it would deplete the natural oils in their fur and dry out their skin. Back in the day, it was assumed that a dog’s ability to self-groom was sufficient to take care of whatever clean-up they might need.Fast forward, and with dogs sleeping in our beds and snuggling on our sofas, we’re suddenly much more aware of the need to keep our pets well-groomed and yes, smelling fresher.Aesthetics aside, bathing your dog not only allows you to check for ticks, sores, and lumps that shouldn’t be there, but a periodic scrub can also keep his skin and hair, healthy. With some breeds such as Yorkshire Terriers, Cocker Spaniels, Dachshunds, and West Highland Terriers (to name a few), a skin condition called Seborrhea can be common. Yes, just like with humans it’s down to an increased production of skin cells and/or skin oils.When it’s the dry version, you get flaky, scaly skin cells (dandruff) caused by excess keratin production. When oily, you get a waxy substance comes from the sebaceous glands which causes your dog’s coat to look greasy.Whether your pooch falls into the above category or he simply loves to dig, burrow, and roll in whatever he can when given the chance, cleaning him up is something you both deserve.
When you combine high energy levels with clumsiness – or simple lack of cautiousness – you get your average dog’s personality. It’s no secret that canines are usually very playful and can easily get themselves in trouble because of it, but sometimes silly accidents can have greater consequences, such as a head injury. If your pet has bumped their head during rambunctious playtime, you might be worrying about a potential concussion. To cut things short, yes, dogs can get a concussion, but not every little head injury will cause one – read on for more details, symptoms, and advice on how to best handle things when your dog hits their head.Can Dogs Get Concussions? Symptoms, Causes, And TreatmentIf a dog hits their head, they can get a concussion – if the blow is a bit more severe, it can cause the brain to move rapidly within the skull, leading to a concussion. Depending on how hard the dog hit his head, there can be a variety of symptoms and consequences of a concussion. To ensure the best outcome for your four-legged friend, it is important that you know how to treat a concussion, how your pet is affected, and what symptoms to watch out for. There are numerous ways in which a dog can get a concussion. Commonly, these are falls and collisions, often during high speed running. A dog may fall from a moderate height, for example from a staircase, from the bed, or a small ledge. Similarly, they can run very fast and accidentally collide with a stationary object, such as a table leg or a wall. Of course, they can also be injured in car accidents, whether in or outside of a car. A sudden jolt or a hard impact can quickly lead to a concussion. It is one of the reasons why it’s important to follow safety precautions when driving with your dog and use a  crash-tested car harness for dogs to minimize the effect of sudden braking or collision. Lastly, a dog can injure its head when fighting another animal or is hit with something hard – a falling branch, a rock, or a ball.
(photo credit: In Green / shutterstock.com)Short road trips and weekend camp-outs just wouldn’t be the same without our best buddy riding shotgun, right? But when that Ziploc baggy full of kibble you hastily prepared and the handful of his favorite treats (BTW, not enough!) you stashed away has you rationing his meals and sharing some of yours, it’s time to think ahead and pack smarter. And there’s no better way of preparing your pet for a great adventure that won’t leave him feeling hangry, than by having the right gear at your fingertips. Yes, we’re talking about the type of gear that will ensure he enjoys full portions of his favorite meals and plenty of snacks, regardless of where your travels take you.
Have you recently noticed your cat, usually a bottomless pit, suddenly turning up their nose at their food dish? Whether it’s a sudden disinterest in their usual meal or a complete aversion to food, a change in your cat’s appetite could be a serious cause for concern.A decrease in appetite may be the result of several factors, ranging from a minor inconvenience or change in taste (they can grow tired of their food, too) to a serious medical condition. The first step to fixing the situation is to figure out the root cause.This post will look at some of the most common reasons a cat may stop eating, offer tips and tricks to encourage them to eat again, and help you decide when you should seek professional help from your veterinarian. Remember, if this is a sign of an underlying illness, early intervention is key!Let’s help your kitty get their appetite back!Why is My Cat Not Eating?Understanding the cause of your cat’s loss of appetite is the first step in determining the best course of action, whether it can be handled at home or calls for a trip to the vet. While occasional picky eating is normal for some cats (my girl Pippen goes through phases), an ongoing, persistent disinterest in their food may be a red flag for a more serious underlying medical issue.Here are a few of the more common reasons a cat may have stopped eating:Illness or DiseaseLike with people, several illnesses, diseases, and medical conditions could significantly impact your cat’s appetite. After all, if you’re not feeling well, eating can often make that feeling worse in the short term.Some possible explanations for the change include:Nausea is a common side effect of many cat-related illnesses.Upper respiratory infections can cause nasal congestion and pressure, making eating uncomfortable. Dental problems like tooth decay, cavities, or abscesses can lead to pain and difficulty chewing.Chronic illnesses like kidney disease, hyperthyroidism, and diabetes may disrupt your cat’s normal body functions, impacting their appetite.PainAnother potential medical-related reason for your cat not wanting to eat - Pain (whether acute or chronic) can leave your best friend feeling “off.” Injuries, arthritis, and other painful conditions can make movement uncomfortable, including chewing or even bending down to reach into their food dish. It can also cause a decrease in their overall activity level, meaning they don’t need to eat as much to keep up with the calories they’re burning. Cats are masters at hiding pain. We, as cat parents, need to be on the look out for any signs of discomfort, such as reluctance to jump, difficulty grooming, or changes in the normal behavior.Stress and AnxietyCats are very sensitive creatures, and even the smallest changes in their environment can cause stress and anxiety. Introducing a new pet, the arrival of a new baby, moving to a new home, or even loud noises like fireworks or home renovations can disrupt their sense of security and lead to a loss of appetite.In addition to appetite changes, signs of trouble to look out for include hiding, excessive grooming, uncharacteristic aggression, or changes in their litter box habits (aka “accidents”).How to Encourage Your Cat to Eat (Home Remedies)So, you’ve noticed your cat isn’t eating or eating less than usual. Now what? What can you do to support your cat’s appetite?While a veterinary consultation should also be your first step, there are several things you can do at home while you wait for your scheduled appointment. Once you’ve consulted with your vet, they can guide you on the best course of action, including any at-home maintenance care. Here are some strategies to help support your cat’s well-being in addition to their professional veterinary care:Food TemptationMaking your cat’s food more appealing can sometimes do the trick, enticing them to push past whatever is causing them to resist eating. Warming their food slightly can sometimes do the trick. You can also try experimenting with different textures. Some cats prefer wet food, while others enjoy a dry kibble or pate.Offering new or tempting protein sources, like cooked chicken, flaked tuna (in water, not oil), or salmon, can help to pique their interest.If your cat’s food isn’t tempting enough, consider using a food topper to add interest to their meal. There are many options, ranging from hydration options like bone broth to more traditional food toppers like freeze-dried proteins. But be sure to check with your vet before making any changes to your cat’s diet.Try Fresh Human FoodsMany cats will turn their nose up at cat food only to be tempted by human foods. Of course, this means familiarizing yourself with the foods that can be given to your cat safely.Some options you may want to consider to spark your cat’s appetite include:SardinesTuna or salmon (fresh or canned in water, not oil)BeefChicken or turkeyEggs, especially egg whitesPumpkin pureeBroccoliGreen beansGreen peasCarrotsSpinachAny cooked foods should be unseasoned. Most common seasoning options are unsafe or even toxic for our cats.Pay careful attention if your cat is trying to eat things they shouldn’t, like your house plants. While it’s great that they are eating something, their chosen snack could prove to be toxic and lead to other serious problems.Create a Comfortable Eating EnvironmentTry reassessing not only what your cat is eating but where they are eating. Are there elements of your cat’s eating environment that are significantly impacting their appetite? Make sure your cat’s dish is placed in a quiet location where they can eat undisturbed, away from high-traffic areas of your home or the competition of other pets.What about your cat’s food dish? Consider experimenting with different food dishes, like a more shallow dish to prevent whisker fatigue, or a different material, like ceramic instead of stainless steel.How often are you cleaning your cat’s food dish? An unclean dish could turn your cat off from eating entirely. Keep their dishes clean and placed at a comfortable height for their size.Reduce StressHigh stress levels can be a major appetite killer. Try to minimize any potential causes of stress or anxiety in your cat’s environment. Pay attention to any triggers that could upset your cat, like overwhelming smells or sounds.You can also reduce your cat’s stress levels by providing mental stimulation. Ensure they have plenty of environmental enrichment in your home, such as scratch posts, cat trees, cat shelves, and interactive toys. Additionally, you may wish to consider calming aids, like Feliway diffusers, but consult with your veterinarian first.
--------------------------------------------------
Also known as: Clumber, ClumberdoodleOrigin: FrancePurpose: Hunting, companion
Interaction patterns with humans and other animals
Overall care requirements and upkeep needs
Overall health score based on common issues and life expectancy
Overall ability to adapt to different environments and situations
This breed is very affectionate and forms strong bonds with their family
Shows moderately high energy levels and requires appropriate exercise
Displays moderately high intelligence and learning capability
moderately outgoing and welcoming towards people and other animals
Shows somewhat protective instincts towards family and territory
Appropriateness for first-time dog owners
Overall ease of training and learning capability
Suitability: Low. Requires: Multiple daily walks, Access to dog parks, Regular outdoor activities
Suitability: High. Ideal features include: Fenced yard, Space for indoor play, Access to outdoor activities
Prefers cooler climates due to dense coat, can overheat in hot weather
Generally good with children, but supervision recommended due to size
Recommendations:
May be reserved initially, warms up with time
Can be social with proper introduction and early socialization
Best Practices:
Early socialization required, may chase due to prey drive
The Clumber Spaniel is a breed that exudes charm, intelligence, and a touch of aristocratic elegance. Originating from France, this breed was initially developed for hunting but has since become a beloved companion dog. Recognized by both the AKC and FCI, the Clumber Spaniel is known for its distinctive appearance and gentle demeanor.
The Clumber Spaniel's dense coat and expressive eyes make it a standout breed, while its robust build hints at its hunting heritage.
The Clumber Spaniel is a gentle giant with a calm and affectionate nature. Known for being loyal and good-natured, this breed forms strong bonds with its family. Here’s a quick look at their social behavior:
Key Metrics:
The Clumber Spaniel is an active breed that requires regular exercise to stay healthy and happy.
Tip: Incorporate mental stimulation games to keep your Clumber Spaniel engaged. Puzzle toys and scent work can be particularly rewarding for this breed.
The Clumber Spaniel's coat is moderate to high maintenance, requiring regular care to keep it in top condition.
Tip: Invest in a good quality slicker brush and undercoat rake to manage shedding and prevent matting.
While the Clumber Spaniel is intelligent, it can be a bit stubborn, making training a mix of patience and consistency.
Tip: Use positive reinforcement techniques such as treats and praise to motivate your Clumber Spaniel during training sessions.
The Clumber Spaniel is adaptable and can thrive in various living environments, from apartments to larger homes, provided they get enough exercise.
Tip: Ensure your living space has enough room for your Clumber Spaniel to move around comfortably. A fenced yard is a bonus but not a necessity if you’re committed to regular walks and playtime.
The Clumber Spaniel has a life expectancy of 10-12 years. Like all breeds, they are prone to certain health issues:
Tip: Regular veterinary check-ups and a balanced diet can help mitigate some health risks. Keep an eye on their ears, as their floppy nature makes them prone to infections.
Owning a Clumber Spaniel comes with its financial responsibilities:
Tip: Budget for routine veterinary care, grooming, and high-quality food to ensure your Clumber Spaniel stays healthy and happy.
The Clumber Spaniel is an excellent choice for families and individuals who can provide the time and attention this breed needs. Here are some specific recommendations:
Final Thought: The Clumber Spaniel is a loyal, affectionate, and intelligent breed that can bring immense joy to the right household. If you’re ready for the commitment, this gentle giant will be a wonderful addition to your family.
By understanding the unique needs and characteristics of the Clumber Spaniel, you can ensure a happy and fulfilling life for both you and your new furry friend.
Your experience with Clumber Spaniel could help others make informed decisions. Join our community to share your insights!
Unable to load comments. Please try again later.
--------------------------------------------------
