Cat Breeds
With their soft, curly coats and slim, elegant frames, Cornish Rex cats are completely different from other breeds. These delightful cats require a little bit of special care to keep their velvety fur in tip-top shape; in return, they offer their owners an abundance of affection. Cornish Rex cats are playful and active, with extroverted personalities.
They love to be in the middle of everything, and they have a tendency to make friends with everyone they encounter. If you're looking for a lap cat, you're in luck! The Cornish Rex loves to cuddle—partly because their short, downy coat simply doesn't hold much heat and partly because the breed is exceptionally sociable.
Because their coat doesn't offer much protection from UV rays from the sun in the summer or keep them warm in the winter, Cornish Rex cats should live indoors. Even inside, they might appreciate a warm sweater in the coldest winter months.
Cornish Rex cats have no special nutritional needs. We recommend feeding a high-quality diet with real meat as the number one ingredient.
You might think that Cornish Rex cats require minimal care due to their ultra-short coats. It's true that these fascinating felines shed very little, but they require bathing as their coats do not absorb the oils from their skin the same way the average cat's coat does.
Most Cornish Rex cats need a warm bath every week or two. If you choose one of these cats, it's important to introduce them to bathing from a very young age. Their coats dry quickly, but you'll need to keep them warm until they dried completely.
Just like other cats, the Cornish Rex breed benefits from regular dental care with daily teeth brushing at home and annual dental checkups at the vet. Trim their nails every few weeks.
These cats are extremely athletic with long, lithe bodies. They're naturally playful, with an appreciation for running, jumping, and climbing. Treat them to a cat tree, a window seat, and a wide selection of toys. Without these essentials, the Cornish Rex will find their own fun, climbing furniture and stealing small objects to bat about the house.
Cornish Rex cats enjoy good health in general. Skin conditions can develop without proper care and some of these cats are prone to developing bald spots.
Because the coat is very sparse, Cornish Rex can get sunburned if they go outdoors. Keep your Cornish Rex cat indoors in the summer months when sun exposure is most intense or apply a pet-safe sunscreen.
Cornish Rex cats can develop a musculoskeletal disease called patellar luxation. Some are prone to heart disease, with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) being a known issue.
Some genetic lines have a predisposition toward deafness, and this condition is more prevalent in pure white Cornish Rex cats than in those with different-colored coats.
The Cornish Rex cat breed is the product of a natural genetic mutation. The breed got its start in Cornwall, England, when a barn cat gave birth to an unusual kitten in 1950. The kitten, later named Kallibunker (Kalli for short), had a short, curly, red-and-white coat. His owner, Nina Ennismore, bred him back to his mother twice. Both of the resulting litters contained curly-haired kittens.
Later, feline geneticists discovered that Rex cats are produced only when both parents have the recessive gene. Other breeds were eventually introduced into the breeding program, including Burmese, Siamese, and British Shorthair cats. Even though the resulting kittens had short coats with normal hair, they all carried the recessive gene and subsequent breedings typically produced kittens with the short, curly coats that make these cats so remarkable.
Cornish Rex cats were brought to the United States in 1957. The breed was granted official recognition by the American Cat Fanciers' Association and the Canadian Cat Association in 1963. The Cat Fanciers' Association gave the breed its stamp of approval in 1964. Today, the Cornish Rex has gained worldwide popularity and is recognized by all cat registries.
Cornish Rex cats love to play fetch! Very intelligent and highly trainable, these kitties enjoy games of all kinds.
There is a common misconception that Cornish Rex cats don't shed. The fact is, they do shed and they are not hypoallergenic. Luckily for their families though, the Cornish Rex breed sheds very little: far less than the average cat.
Cornish Rex cats must be kept indoors. They are prone to sunburn, and they do not have guard hairs to provide protection from cold or wet conditions.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Cornish Rex, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Cornish Rex or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Cornish Rex, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Cornish Rex cats cost between $800-$1,300.
Cornish Rex cats tend to be small in size. A fully grown Cornish Rex cat might weigh between 6-9 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 12"-14" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Cornish Rex is 9-13+ years.
Cornish Rex are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: absolutimages, Shutterstock
Last Updated on March 20, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Cornish Rex cat is a unique and energetic cat that fits in most families. It was first discovered in Cornwall, England, and has since won the affection of many cat owners worldwide.
These cats have a combination of striking looks and pleasant temperaments and are known to have friendly and affectionate dispositions, often forming deep bonds with humans. Cornish Rex cats are an endless source of joy from their adorable kitten stage to their fully grown adult form.
Are you eager to know more about the Cornish Rex cat breed? Dive in for a detailed breed profile. We will also analyze its temperament, intelligence, care needs, and more.
Length:
8 – 12 inches
Weight:
5 – 10 pounds
Lifespan:
10 – 15 years
Colors:
Black, ebony, blue, gray, chocolate, brown, sable, cream, beige, tan, orange, white
Suitable for:
Active families and individuals looking for a low-shedding cat.
Temperament:
Affectionate, loyal, friendly, intelligent, quick learners, gets along well with other pets
The Cornish Rex traces its origin to Cornwall, England, in 1950. The unique appearance of the cat is attributed to a genetic mutation. It has large eyes, a long and slender body, and big ears. While it looks fragile, it is a sturdy cat with high energy levels.

Cornish Rex kittens inherit the breed’s distinct features, including soft, wavy coats and playful personalities. They also have boundless energy and curiosity, so expect endless entertainment for hours. It is important to create a safe and stimulating environment for them to explore by providing plenty of toys and scratching posts to satisfy their active nature.
Interactive toys are best suited for these kitties, especially those that provide mental stimulation. Feather wands, laser pointers, and crinkle tunnels are some good options here.
Early training and socialization are crucial to ensure they grow into well-adjusted adult cats. Introduce them to new people and animals and play with them often.

Cornish Rex cats are known for their affectionate and friendly nature. They form strong bonds with their human companions and enjoy the company of other pets. These cats love being the center of attention and often seek out their owners for cuddles and lap time.
Cornish Rex cats are also highly intelligent and curious. They have an inquisitive nature and enjoy exploring their surroundings. Unsurprisingly, they’re quick learners and can easily pick up tricks and commands.
While each cat has its personality, Cornish Rex cats are generally known for their outgoing and playful nature. They are active cats that enjoy interactive play sessions and thrive in homes with plenty of physical and mental exercise opportunities.
Cornish Rex cats are social butterflies and are known for their loving and loyal nature, making them an excellent choice for families.
They can form strong bonds with their human companions and enjoy participating in daily activities. Their friendly and outgoing temperament makes them suitable for households with children, as they are patient and tolerant. Don’t be surprised when your little furry companion actively seeks attention and affection from the rest of the family members.
While individual personality traits may vary, Cornish Rex cats are known for their sociability and ability to form positive relationships with other animals.
However, this harmonious existence with the rest of your pets will only happen with proper introductions and a gradual adjustment period. The good thing is that the cats are generally amiable, making it easy for them to live alongside your dogs and other cats.

Owning a Cornish Rex cat can be a delightful experience. However, the cat has specific needs and requirements that you should provide to ensure its well-being and happiness. Here are some key aspects to consider when owning a Cornish Rex cat.
It is important to provide your cat with a balanced and nutritious diet.
This cat has a faster metabolism rate than other breeds, such as the British Shorthair, Maine Coon, and Ragdoll, so it may require a slightly higher caloric intake. Therefore, it is crucial to consider high-quality cat food specifically formulated for active cats or kittens.
The food should provide nutrients, including proteins, fats, vitamins, and minerals, to support their overall health and maintain their sleek coat. Consult a veterinarian for the appropriate portion sizes and feeding schedule based on your cat’s age, weight, and activity level.
Cornish Rex cats are highly energetic and agile. Therefore, regular exercise is vital to keep them physically and mentally stimulated. It also prevents boredom and destructive behavior.
Engage in interactive play sessions with toys, encouraging them to chase, jump, and pounce. Toys such as feather wands, laser pointers, and puzzle toys can be great options to provide physical and mental enrichment. Also, provide ample vertical spaces, such as cat trees or shelves, for climbing and perching as these cats like high places.
Cornish Rex cats are considered one of the most intelligent cat breeds.
This means they are highly trainable. They respond well to positive reinforcement techniques, such as treats, praise, and play. However, it is important to start training early to establish good behaviors and teach basic commands like “sit” and “come.”
Use interactive toys or puzzle feeders to stimulate and challenge their problem-solving skills mentally. Remember to be patient and consistent with training, focusing on rewards and encouragement rather than punishment.
The Cornish Rex’s unique coat requires special attention as the fur is prone to oiliness. Regular grooming is necessary to maintain its soft texture.
Consider brushing them once or twice weekly with a soft bristle brush or grooming glove to remove loose hair and distribute natural oils. Also, clean their ears often and watch out for signs of infection.
You must also ensure their nails are trimmed regularly.
The Cornish Rex cat breed is generally considered a healthy and robust breed. However, like all cats, they are prone to certain minor and severe health conditions.

There are some notable differences between male and female Cornish Rex cats. However, these differences are generally more subtle and less pronounced than in other cat breeds, such as the Maine Coon.
Regarding physical characteristics, male Cornish Rex cats are usually slightly larger than females, but the difference is generally minimal. Both genders maintain the breed’s distinctive slim and elegant physique, with their characteristic wavy or curly coats.
Both genders are known for their affectionate, playful nature and high energy levels. They also enjoy interactive playtime and love engaging in activities that stimulate their curious minds.
However, unneutered male cats may display more territorial and marking behaviors, such as spraying urine to mark their territory. On the other hand, female cats will go into heat cycles if not spayed, during which they may vocalize more and exhibit restless behavior.

The Cornish Rex cat’s unique coat results from a natural genetic mutation. Unlike most cats with three layers of fur (guard, awn, and down), Cornish Rex cats have only the down hair. This mutation affects the structure of the hair shaft, resulting in its soft, wavy, and curly coat.
An additional mutation within the Rex breed makes the hair and whiskers more susceptible to breakage and loss, sometimes giving the impression that their whiskers are particularly sensitive and delicate. However, there is no evidence to support this, and cats that are genetically predisposed to having short or sparse whiskers suffer no adverse consequences as a result. You can’t miss what you never had!
Cornish Rex cats are known for their remarkable agility and jumping abilities. This is courtesy of their long, slender bodies and muscular hind legs. Be prepared for a cat that loves exploring vertical spaces, climbing furniture, and perching on high surfaces. Providing tall cat trees or shelves will allow them to satisfy their instinct to climb and jump.

The Cornish Rex cat is a fascinating and distinctive breed known for its elegant appearance, curly coat, and playful nature. Its exceptional ability to forge strong bonds with human companions makes it one of the most popular cats today.
While there might be differences between male and female Cornish Rex cats, both genders share the breed’s signature characteristics, such as their physicality, curly coat, and affectionate nature.
Regardless of which one you pick, you are assured of a loving pet that will bring joy and love to your home.
Featured Image Credit: absolutimages, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Cornwall is the birthplace of the unusual Cornish Rex cat – a curly-coated cat.
A kitten was born in 1950 and belonged to Nina Ennismore and Winifred Macalister. The other kittens had short hair but this unusual kitten had curly hair, the result of a spontaneous natural mutation.
A successful breeding program was started and it was in 1963 that the American Cat Fanciers Association as well as the and today it is recognized by all cat registries.
The Cornish Rex is a small to medium-sized cat weighing between 3 to 5kg. It’s a lithe, slender cat with a small, narrow head with big ears and eyes.
The cat has long, slender legs with a tail that is also slender and long. The hair is very fine and they are actually prone to hair loss. The coat has fine, short, silky hair. There can be a bit of a curl in the hair,  The coat comes in many colors from white, silver, black, red, blue to chocolate and they can have different patterns too as well as bein bi-color.
The eyes can be gold, brown, or green. The torso is long and lean, the cat has a deep chest but strong hips and rear end that allow the Cornish Rex to leap with ease up onto perches.
The Cornish Rex loves his human family and loves spending time with them, whether that means fun and games or sitting in your lap.
He is intelligent and can learn a few tricks and is capable of learning to walk on a leash. He is a confident cat, playful and entertaining. Gentle and loving, he is a talkative cat, wanting to express his opinion about everything.
He will fit easily into different lifestyles, whether you’re single, a family, or in a retirement home, so long as he is receiving lots of attention.
He isn’t as frail as he looks and can get pretty active and social with children and dogs and may even beat the dog to fetching a small ball.
If you’re looking for a cat that can bring laughter and fun into the household, you won’t go wrong with a Cornish Rex as they will amuse and delight.
He is also a cat that doesn’t require a lot of fuss and bother, although he makes a fuss about the amount of attention he gets.
He doesn’t like being left alone for long, so a good idea is to work from home or to get a companion for him. Other than than, he makes the most splendid feline companion.
The Cornish Rex is a hardy cat with very few health issues. Certainly, because of the very fine hair, you’d have to be aware of sunburn.
Cats can get sunburned and can be at serious risk of getting skin cancer later on.  Be sun-smart and apply pet sunscreen.
Be careful of the type of sunscreen you use as your cat will likely want to lick it off. Other issues to look out for are hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This is a common kind of heart disease in cats where there is a thickening in the wall of the heart.
Grooming your Cornish Rex isn’t going to be an issue as the cat has very little hair. Although nothing is set in stone and some Cornish Rex’s have thicker coats, requiring more brushing. Maybe a soft brush once a week will be sufficient for this cat breed.
A good idea is to take a cloth of warm water and to gently wipe your cat so that he is free of dust.
Supply a litter box and make sure that you remove his droppings every single day.
Have your pet neutered or spayed if you don’t want unwanted kittens. These minor ops have many health benefits for your cat as well.
When you brush your cat, check his entire body out for any abnormalities. Check for new lumps, check inside the ears to make sure they are clean and free of redness which could indicate an infection.
Clip his toenails, make sure his eyes are clear and bright, free of discharge, and check inside his mouth to make sure there aren’t any bad teeth, as this could cause him a lot of discomfort.
--------------------------------------------------
The Cornish Rex cat, with their striking appearance and unique characteristics, is a captivating breed that has captured the hearts of cat lovers worldwide. These elegant felines have a wavy coat that is soft and fine, resembling crushed velvet. Additionally, their large ears and inquisitive nature set them apart in the world of domestic cats.
This beloved breed is somewhat hypoallergenic, making them a popular choice for those with cat allergies. The Cornish Rex is also known for their playful and active nature. Their acrobatic abilities and love of climbing earn them the description of “cat-like monkeys.” They are highly sociable and enjoy being the center of attention, making them great companions. Whether you’re drawn to their striking appearance or their engaging nature, Cornish Rex cats make wonderful and entertaining companions for those who are willing to give them the love and attention they deserve.
When considering a Cornish Rex, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Cornish Rex kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Cornish Rex breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Cornwall is a sort of magical corner of Great Britain. It was the birthplace of King Arthur, and it was the birthplace of one of the most unusual and interesting cat breeds in existence: the curly-coated Cornish Rex. A curly-coated kitten was born in 1950 to a shorthaired tortoiseshell and white pet cat named Serena, who belonged to Nina Ennismore and Winifred Macalister. The other four kittens in the litter had short hair, so Kallibunker, as he was named, stood out for his odd coat, the result of a spontaneous natural mutation.
As is so often the case, the father of the litter was unidentified, although he was suspected to be Ginger, a shorthaired red tabby who was Serena’s litter brother. After obtaining advice on how to establish the new trait, Ennismore attempted to produce more of the kittens, breeding them to each other and outcrossing to shorthaired cats. She was somewhat successful, breeding among others a cat named Poldhu and his daughter LaMorna Cove, both of whom contributed to the later development of the breed, which came to be called the Cornish Rex, after its birthplace and its coat type, similar in texture to that of rex rabbits.
LaMorna Cove had been exported to the United States, and her kittens—from a breeding with Poldhu before she made her journey across the pond—helped to establish the breed in the United States. Because of the lack of breeding stock, the cats in the U. S. were outcrossed to Siamese. A son of Poldhu, Sham Pain Chas, fathered a litter in Great Britain in 1960, keeping the breed alive in its homeland.
Also contributing to its survival was the birth of two curly-coated kittens in East Germany, who were determined to have a similar mutation that was compatible with that of the Cornish Rex. The American Cat Fanciers Association and the Canadian Cat Association recognized the Cornish Rex in 1963, followed by the Cat Fanciers Association in 1964. The breed is now recognized by all cat registries.
The Cornish Rex typically weighs 6 to 10 pounds.
The Cornish Rex appears suave and refined, but then this charming and highly intelligent cat’s sense of humor and love of attention take over and he strolls onto center stage, ready to play the piano, perform tricks, or amaze onlookers with his ability to vault to the highest point in the room.
His long toes enable him to manipulate objects deftly and to open doors and cabinets with ease. Be sure you put away securely anything you don’t want him to have (and don’t let him see you doing it). This is a confident cat who loves people and will follow them around, waiting for any opportunity to sit in a lap or give a kiss. He enjoys being handled, making it easy to take him to the veterinarian or train him for therapy work.
If it weren’t insulting, it might be fair to describe the Cornish Rex as “doglike.” That includes his willingness to retrieve toys that are thrown. He has the speed of a sighthound but does not share the sighthound’s laidback temperament.
The Cornish Rex is highly active, always on the move. His speed and sleek exterior are reminiscent of a finely tuned racecar, complete with quick starts and cornering ability. Although he is affectionate and gentle, he is not the choice for someone who wants a quiet, ornamental cat. His voice ranges from sweet to strident, and although he is not as talkative as his ancestor the Siamese, he will indeed carry on a conversation if he feels the need to express his opinion.
The Cornish Rex maintains his kittenlike attitude well into old age. He never loses the desire to interact with people and is best suited to a home where he will receive the love and constant companionship he craves.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Cornish Rex are generally healthy, but the following diseases have been seen in the breed:
Grooming the Cornish Rex is typically as easy as brushing your hand over his coat. Some Cornish Rex cats have a longer or woollier coat, however, and may need some help from a soft bristle brush or fine-tooth comb to keep their coat looking neat. Groom gently so you don’t break the delicate hairs. The best thing about a Cornish Rex coat is that the hairs are so fine that they aren’t very noticeable on clothing and furniture.
Baths are rarely necessary unless the cat is white or has a lot of white on the coat. Those cats can start to look dingy if they are not regularly bathed. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Wipe the corners of the eyes daily with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Like all cats, Cornish Rex are very particular about bathroom hygiene. The Cornish Rex feels warm to the touch, but he is always seeking warmth. If you are cold, he probably is too. Buy him a nice sweater or two to help him retain heat.
It’s a good idea to keep a Cornish Rex as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Cornish Rex who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such an unusual cat without paying for it. If possible, build your Cornish Rex a large outdoor enclosure where he can jump and climb safely. If your Cornish Rex has an outdoor enclosure that allows for sunbathing, be sure to apply cat-safe sunscreen to his body to prevent sunburn.
With his crushed velvet coat, racy, slender body, and curly whiskers, the Cornish Rex is a dandy of a cat. In addition to his soft, wavy fur and curvy body, he is distinguished by a small, egg-shaped head, about one-third longer than it is wide. His facial features include a rounded forehead, the high cheekbones of a supermodel, a Roman nose with a high, prominent bridge, and oval eyes that slant slightly upward. Sitting high on the head are large ears that look as if they could pull in satellite signals.
The distinctive body, a gift from the Cornish Rex’s Siamese ancestors, is made up graceful arches and curves. It consists of a long, slender torso, a deep chest, a naturally arched back, and a belly that curves gently upward to form a small waistline. Muscular hips, thighs and rear end propel the Cornish Rex’s great leaps. Supporting him when he lands are long, slender legs and dainty, slightly oval paws. A long, flexible tail tapers toward the end. His curvy, slender body might make the medium-size Cornish Rex seem delicate, but he is surprisingly heavy when picked up. He typically weighs 6 to 10 pounds.
The Cornish Rex curls are present at birth. Some kittens go through a stage during which the coat is flat and suedelike, but as they mature the coat becomes wavy again. At adulthood, usually between 18 months and three years, the coat is short, soft and silky, with no harsh guard hairs. The fur lies close to the body in tight waves, like the marcelled hairdo of a 1940s film star. It should not be sparse or bare in places.
The coat comes in a profusion of colors and patterns. Solid colors are white, black, blue, red, cream, chocolate and lavender. They also come in various tabby colors and patterns, tortoiseshell, calico, bi-color and pointed patterns, to name just a few. Depending on the coat color, the eyes may be gold, green or hazel.
The active and social Cornish Rex is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He will play fetch as well as any retriever, learns tricks easily and loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime.com’s dog breed page!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
The Cornish Rex is a delightful cat and one that boasts a playful affectionate nature. They are small to medium in size and have a very unusual crinkly coat wide head and lovely curly whiskers. They are known to be extremely intelligent with a bit of a mischievous streak in them and they retain their kitten-like traits well into their senior years. Many owners say that sharing a home with a Cornish Rex is like living with a dog thanks to the fact their feline friends follow them about from room to room and love nothing more than retrieving toys.
The Cornish Rex is a relative newcomer to the cat scene having first been bred in the 1950s in a small village in Cornwall. They are a result of what is known as a spontaneous natural mutation. This mutation occurred in non-pedigree cats owned by two ladies that produced a litter of kittens one of which had a curly coat and crinkly whiskers. The ladies called the kitten Kallibunker and he was to become the first ever Cornish Rex cat.
However nobody knew which male cat sired the litter but there is some thought that it could have been a short-haired red tabby that was related to the mother. The gene responsible for the mutation is recessive as such it only appears when two related cats mate and they have to be very closely related for the mutation to occur. The Cornish Rex was accepted as a breed in its own right in the late 1960s when these extraordinary cats gained recognition with the GCCF.
Today these charming cats are known the world over and have found their way in the hearts and homes of many cat lovers for good reason. The Cornish Rex is not only an extraordinary looking cat but they are extremely intelligent loyal and affectionate too which in short means they are the perfect companion and family pet.
They have medium size oval-shaped eyes that boast having a slight slant which gives them a unique sultry look about them. Their necks are elegant and their bodies are slender muscular and moderately long. They have very slender long legs which gives them the appearance of being tall. Paws are oval-shaped and on the small side. The Cornish has a long fine tail that tapers to the tip. Tails are nicely covered in wavy hair its full length.
When it comes to their coat the Cornish Rex boasts having quite a unique wavy coat that's short silky to the touch and dense without any guard hairs. The hair all over their bodies can consist of curls waves or ripples which is particularly evident on a cat's back and on their sides. The hair on their head neck over their shoulders and on their legs is often too short to show any sort of wave or curl but their whiskers and eyebrows are always curly or crinkly and they can be quite long. The Cornish Rex only grows their full coats when they are around three years old which is when they really look their best.
The Cornish Rex can be just about any colour and they can have many pattern combinations in their coats which is acceptable under their GCCF breed standard and this includes the following as well as many others:
The Cornish Rex is as aristocratic in nature as they are in looks and although they look quite dainty and fragile they are in fact quite sturdy and robust cats. They also boast having a ton of energy and love nothing more than to be kept busy by playing interactive games with people. The Cornish Rex is a highly intelligent cat and as such they need to be given the right amount of stimulation for them to be truly happy. They have an athletic build which means they are agile on their feet and love nothing more than to be up high so they can look down on the world below.
The Cornish Rex forms very strong bonds with their owners and thrive on human company. They are not very talkative but are quick to let an owner know something using their body language. They also like to use their paws to catch things and are excellent when it comes to retrieving objects and toys. They are also very good at knocking a ball around the room with their front paws which is another game the Cornish really enjoys playing in between their catnaps.
They don't like being left on their own for very long as such they are best suited to families where at least one person stays at home when everyone else is out. They also feel the cold which means they are drawn to any heat source when they feel chilly and this includes an owner's lap as soon as they sit down which is another of their endearing traits.
The Cornish Rex is a highly intelligent cat and one that forms very strong bonds with their families. They thrive on human contact and love being around people. Being so smart they learn new things extremely quickly and this includes games like fetching toys and then waiting for them to be thrown again very much like a dog. In fact they are often referred to as being quite dog-like in certain of their behaviours which often sees a Cornish following a loved one around the house and cuddling up to them as soon as they sit down.
If a Cornish is left on their own for too long they quickly get bored which can see them developing a few destructive behaviours around the home which is their way of relieving their boredome and any stress they may be experiencing.
The Cornish Rex with their outgoing affectionate and loyal personalities is the perfect choice for families with children. They are quick on their feet and therefore know when to get out of the reach of smaller children when they get too boisterous or loud. However all young children need to be taught how to behave around cats and any interaction should always be well supervised by an adult.
They also get on well with dogs as long as they are good around cats that is. However care has to be taken when introducing a Cornish Rex to dogs they don't already know just in case the dog does not get on with their feline counterparts. When it comes to small animals and pets it's always wiser to keep a close eye on any cat when they are around smaller pets just in case.
The average life expectancy of a Cornish Rex is between 12 and 16 years when properly cared for and fed an appropriate good quality diet to suit their ages.
The Cornish Rex is known to suffer from few hereditary health issues which are worth knowing about if you are planning share your home with one of these playful and fun-loving cats. The conditions that seem to affect the breed the most include the following:
It's also important to make sure a Cornish Rex does not get sunburnt during the warmer summer months.
The Cornish Rex needs to be groomed on a regular basis to make sure their coats and skin are kept in top condition. On top of this they need to be fed good quality food that meets all their nutritional needs throughout their lives which is especially true of kittens and older cats when they reach their golden years.
The Cornish Rex boasts having a short dense close lying wavy coat and as such they are low maintenance on the grooming front. A weekly brush all it takes to keep their coats in good condition. It's all too easy to "over-groom" a Cornish Rex which could end up damaging their fragile coats which is something owners need to bear in mind. Like many other breeds they tend to shed the most in the Spring and then again in the Autumn when more frequent brushing is usually necessary to keep on top of things. However some Cornish shed more than others throughout the year and other hardly at all.
It's also important to check a cat's ears on a regular basis and to clean them when necessary. If too much wax is allowed to build up it can lead to a painful infection which can be hard to clear up. In short prevention is often easier than cure with ear infections. Cats often suffer from ear mites which can be a real problem which is why it's so important to check their ears on a regular basis.
The Cornish Rex is a high energy cat and as such they need to be given lots of things to play with. However they also need lots of attention and will follow an owner around the house not only to check what they are doing but also so they have company.
Cats kept as indoor pets need to be given lots of things to do and places to hide when they want to bearing in mind that the Cornish Rex loves to climb up as high as they can so they can look down on the world below. They also need to have lots of places they can snuggle up for a snooze when the mood takes them because if there is one thing the Cornish loves doing it's napping in a cosy spot throughout the day bearing in mind that they do feel the cold.
If you get a Cornish Rex kitten from a breeder they would give you a feeding schedule and it's important to stick to the same routine feeding the same kitten food to avoid any tummy upsets. You can change a kitten's diet but this needs to be done very gradually always making sure they don't develop any digestive upsets and if they do it's best to put them back on their original diet and to discuss things with the vet before attempting to change it again.
Older cats are not known to be fussy eaters but this does not mean they can be given a lower quality diet. It's best to feed a mature cat several times a day making sure it's good quality food that meets all their nutritional requirements which is especially important as cats get older. It's also essential to keep an eye on a cat's weight because if they start to put on too much it can have a serious impact on their overall health and wellbeing. Like all other breeds the Cornish Rex needs free access to fresh clean water at all times.
If you are looking to buy a Cornish Rex you would need to pay anything from £300 to well over £500 for a well-bred pedigree kitten. The cost of insuring a male 3-year-old Cornish Rex in northern England would be £15.64 a month for basic cover but for a lifetime policy this would set you back £25.17 a month (quote as of Sept 2016). When insurance companies calculate a pet's premium they factor in several things which includes where you live in the UK a cat's age and whether or not they have been neutered or spayed among other things.
When it comes to food costs you need to buy the best quality food whether wet or dry making sure it suits the different stages of a cat’s life. This would set you back between £15 - £20 a month. On top of all of this you need to factor in veterinary costs if you want to share your home with a Cornish Red and this includes their initial vaccinations their annual boosters the cost of neutering or spaying a cat when the time is right and their yearly health checks all of which quickly adds up to over £500 a year.
As a rough guide the average cost to keep and care for a Cornish Rex would be between £30 to £50 a month depending on the level of insurance cover you opt to buy for your cat but this does not include the initial cost of buying a well-bred kitten.
--------------------------------------------------
