LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Planning on owning a Dandie Dinmont Terrier and would like to know if Dandie Dinmont Terriers are safe with cats?
Find out all about Dandie Dinmont Terrier cat friendliness and how to make your Dandie Dinmont Terrier friendlier with cats on this page.



A typical misconception a lot of individuals make is thinking that all dogs dislike felines and vice versa. This isn’t true and there are a lot of dog breeds that get along with felines. Canines that aren’t naturally feline friendly can also be trained to be more safe around felines.
According to professional Dandie Dinmont Terrier dog experts, Dandie Dinmont Terrier dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of dog breeds that are cat friendly.



Regardless of the mistaken belief, a great deal of canines and felines can live together in harmony. Follow these easy to follow actions to know how to best introduce your Dandie Dinmont Terrier with a cat.


Not all Dandie Dinmont Terriers hate cats, some get along with them. When Dandie Dinmont Terriers do hate cats, of the most typical factor is quite straightforward. Like all pet dogs, Dandie Dinmont Terriers still keep a few of the hunting tendencies that they were initially reproduced for. This is why Dandie Dinmont Terriers like chasing after all moving things, whether it’s a ball, rodent, or a cat.
Because most cats will flee when they encounter, it’s simple to see why they are known for not being friendly with each other. Dandie Dinmont Terriers actually delight in chasing after felines not because they dislike them, but primarily because a quick running animal triggers a powerful, natural reaction to go after overcomes any training or socialisation.


Training your Dandie Dinmont Terrier to quit going after cats requires time, practice and consistency, however the benefit of not having to stress over them continually chasing after is very well worth it. Here are the phases of how to stop your Dandie Dinmont Terrier from going after cats.


The best method to guarantee your Dandie Dinmont Terrier would never ever kill a feline is to raise them with felines when they’re a puppy before 3 months old. At this age, they will generally wish to play with the felines and will not see them as prey.
If your Dandie Dinmont Terrier has actually killed a cat previously, its best if you keep them in an open, fenced off area. When taking them for walks try to prevent going after sunset and prior to dawn since that’s when cats are very active and likely to be wandering the neighborhoods.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
Menu
Daphne the Dandie Dinmont at 3 years old (Pitfirrane breeding) and Madge the Dandie Dinmont puppy at 12 weeks (Hendell breeding)
Dan-die Din-mont Ter-ee-er
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier is a low to the ground, longer than he is tall, little dog. The large head has a topknot that is in proportion to the body. The skull is broad between the ears, gradually tapering to the eyes. The muzzle is deep, with a well-defined stop. The large teeth meet in a scissors bite. The moderately large nose and the lips are dark in color. The large, round, wide-set eyes come in dark hazel with dark eye rims. The 3 to 4 inch (7-10 cm) ears are pendant, set low and wide, hanging close to the cheeks. The legs are short with the back legs being a little longer than the front legs. The "scimitar" tail looks like a curved sword and is about 8 to 10 inches (20-25 cm) long, thicker for about 4 inches then tapering to a point. Dewclaws may be removed when puppies are three or four days old. The coat is about 2 inches (5 cm) long, with a mix of soft and hard hairs. Hair on the underside is softer in texture and the head is covered with an even softer, silky topknot. Coat colors come in pepper (dark bluish black to a light silvery gray) or mustard (reddish brown to a pale fawn). Mustard puppies are born with a dark brown coat which lightens into varying shades of red when it reaches an adult. Pepper puppies are born black and tan that silvers later in life. Pepper coats have a silver topknot and mustard color coats have a cream-colored topknot.
The Dandie Dinmont makes a great companion dog, affectionate and happy-go-lucky. It is lively, bold, brave, independent and intelligent. Because of this terrier's hunting instincts, it should not be trusted with non-canine pets, such as hamsters, rabbits, pet mice and guinea pigs. It will be okay with cats that it is raised with from puppyhood. They are not difficult to train, if you are firm and consistent. Makes a good watchdog, but needs to be told, after getting your attention with the first warning bark, it is time to be quiet and let you handle the rest. Because of this breed’s small size, a lot of Dandie Dinmont Terriers develop Small Dog Syndrome, human induced behaviors where the dog believes he is king of the home. Dogs with small dog syndrome are led to believe they own the humans and everything else around them, and do their best to keep and defend what they own. This causes many varying degrees of behavior issues, including, but not limited to, stubbornness, determination, willful, guarding, separation anxiety, difficulty with obedience training, reserved with strangers, snapping, biting, dog-aggressiveness, and obsessive barking, as the dog tries to keep his humans and everyone else around him in line. These are NOT Dandie Dinmont traits, but behaviors brought on by the lack of a firm, consistent pack leader who provides rules and limits to what it is and is not allowed to do, along with the lack of a daily pack walk. As soon as the humans take the control away from the dog, and the dog's instincts are met, the negative behaviors will begin to subside and the Dandie Dinmont will be a wonderful, trustworthy family companion.
Height: 8 - 11 inches (20 - 28 cm)
    Weight: 18 - 24 pounds (8 - 11 kg)
Generally a healthy breed. Some are prone to glaucoma and epilepsy. Hypothyroidism can occur when the dog is older. Do not overfeed, as an overweight dog can have back problems.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier is good for apartment life. They are fairly active indoors and a small yard will do as long as you take them for daily walks. Likes to chase, be careful when taking them off the leash.
Dandie Dinmonts need to be walked daily. They will also enjoy sessions of play in the park or other safe open areas.
About 12-15 years
About 3 to 6 puppies
The Dandie Dinmont needs to be brushed regularly. They should have professional grooming. Dead hair should be plucked out once or twice a year. Show dogs require much more grooming. This breed sheds little to no hair.
The Dandie Dinmont is an old terrier dating back to the 1700s, originating from the border area between England and Scotland. The breed may have been developed from the Skye Terrier and the now extinct Scotch Terrier (not to be confused with today's Scottish Terrier). The breed was popular among the gypsies and was used by farmers to kill vermin. With its short legs it was able to go to ground hunting badgers and otter. In 1814 Sir Walter Scott wrote about the breed in his famous novel "Guy Mannering." In the book there was a character named Dandie Dinmont, and that is where the breed got its name. It was recognized by the AKC in 1886. Some of the Dandie Dinmont's talents are vermin catcher, hunting rabbit, otter, badger, martens, weasels and skunks.
Terrier, AKC Terrier
Daphne the Dandie Dinmont at 3 years old (Pitfirrane breeding) and Madge the Dandie Dinmont puppy at 12 weeks (Hendell breeding)
Daphne the Dandie Dinmont at 3 years old (Pitfirrane breeding) and Madge the Dandie Dinmont puppy at 12 weeks (Hendell breeding)
Daphne the Dandie Dinmont at 3 years old
Madge the Dandie Dinmont puppy at 12 weeks
Madge the Dandie Dinmont puppy at 12 weeks
Longfellow the Dandie Dinmont Terrier licking his chops
Longfellow the Dandie Dinmont Terrier taking a nap on the chair
This is CH German Dandies' Earl of Speedy. Photo courtesy of DandieOnline
Buddy the Dandie Dinmont Terrier at 9 years old with a puppy cut—"He has a great personality, and I've never heard him bark except for when he's sleeping (dreaming) :)"
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier is an old breed with roots in the border region between England and Scotland. It was initially bred in the 1700s for hunting badgers and otters, eventually gaining recognition as a distinctive breed by the early 19th century. The breed was named after a character, Dandie Dinmont, from Sir Walter Scott's novel "Guy Mannering," published in 1814, who owned terriers of this kind. The Dandie has a long, low torso and short legs. These little characters are said to be excellent watchdogs with noticeably big barks.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier is a generally healthy breed, but may suffer from some health conditions including brachygnathism, chondrodysplasia, chondrodystrophy, primary angle closure glaucoma, hyperadrenocorticism, oligodontia, portosystemic shunts, prognathism, ulcerative keratitis, and cheyletiella mite infections.
Dandie Dinmont Terriers are known for their independent and intelligent nature. They can be reserved around strangers but are generally affectionate and loyal towards their families. Despite their small size, they have a strong hunting instinct and may show aggression towards small animals if not properly trained. They are also known for their unique "lion's roar" of a bark.Training a Dandie Dinmont Terrier requires patience due to their independent streak, but their intelligence makes them capable learners. They are generally good with children but, like all breeds, should be supervised to ensure safe interaction.Overall, Dandie Dinmont Terriers are loyal, affectionate dogs that make excellent companions for those willing to meet their needs for moderate exercise and mental stimulation.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier was recognized by the United Kennel Club in 1918.The Dandie, which was entered into the American Kennel Club (AKC) in 1886, is the only AKC breed named after a fictional character.According to the AKC, Dandie fanciers say that every Dandie alive today can be traced back to a dog name Old Ginger who was sired by a dog named Old PepperQueen Victoria of England owned a Dandie.
Doi:10.1002/9781119540687https://www.ukcdogs.com/dandie-dinmont-terrier  https://www.petmd.com/dog/breeds/c_dg_dandie_dinmont_terrier https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/dandie-dinmont-terrier/ https://www.fci.be/Nomenclature/Standards/168g03-en.pdf
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
If you’re a fan of Terriers then you might want to look into this adorable and well-loved 300 hundred-year-old breed: The Dandie Dinmont Terrier. Unlike other terrier dogs, the Dandie has a long body, short legs, and long ears, and is covered head to toe in a soft double coat. To add to their lovable appearance, Dandie Dinmont has a strong personality. Brave, intelligent, and doting, this dog has a lot to offer their families.
Many dogs have many adoring qualities but if you want to find out what makes the Dandie Dinmont Terrier dog breed unique read on to find out everything you need to know and more.
Dandie Dinmont Terriers have been around for around 300 years. It was during the 1700s that the unnamed terriers were used to work specific types of terrain across the border country of England and Scotland. As part of their work, they would tirelessly hunt badgers and otters as their small and agile stature would allow them to pursue the animals in hard-to-reach places.
Interestingly, the Dandie Dinmont is the only terrier breed to have been named after a fictional character. Dandie Dinmont was the name of a farmer in ‘Guy Mannering’, written by Sir Walter Scott. In the novel, the aforementioned farmer was the owner of a number of terriers and was based on a real-life breeder named James Davidson. This led to the naming of the dog which was initially ‘Dandie Dinmont’s terriers. However, over time, the apostrophe was eventually dropped and the remaining name stuck around.
Davidson owned a number of Dinmont Terriers that he also used to hunt with. These pooches had some unique names and are referred to as the ‘immortal six’ amongst Dandie Dinmont lovers. Their names were: Little Pepper, Young Pepper, Old Pepper, Little Mustard, Young Mustard, and Old Mustard.
Dandie terriers have caught the eye of people from all walks of life and in 1875 a club, residing in England, formed known as the Dandie Dinmont Terrier Club. Shortly after, in 1886, the terrier breed was recognized by the American Kennel Club.
﻿
Healthy, full-grown Dandie Dinmonts will be anywhere between 8 and 11 inches in height and will weigh between 18 to 24 pounds. There is also no significant difference in size according to gender like other dog breeds.
Dandie Dinmont Terriers have two significant recognized colors: Pepper and Mustard. Pepper is described as a dark bluish-black to a light silvery gray whereas mustard resembles a pale fawn, cream, to reddish-brown. Either coat color will come with streaks of white situated elsewhere on the body including the stomach, paws, and head.
On the outside, the Dandie Dinmont Terrier dog is tough, sturdy, and agile. On the inside, this small dog breed is highly intelligent with the air of confidence that larger dogs typically possess. So what this terrier breed lacks in size, he makes up for in personality.
Overall Dandie can be described as clever and courageous. As they were originally bred to be hunting dogs you can expect as much. Due to their working background and nature, they are inclined to bark to alert their owners of something but they don’t tend to wear out their vocal cords in the process. Once you’ve inspected the reason why they’re barking – they’ll be content and stop.
When it comes to strangers this breed can be watchful and alert as they take in the person they are unfamiliar with. Generally, Dandies are independent dogs but they are far from cold or distant from their families. In fact, a Dandie Dinmont is incredibly affectionate and playful at heart. It’s safe to say that these dogs fit in with a lot of families as they are easily a friendly breed overall with an eagerness to please their humans.
To touch on a later point, it’s important to know that Dandie Dinmonts will need socializing at a young age so that they are familiar with children and animals. If not, they may become somewhat territorial or wary of others. It’s also important to understand that these terriers also have a high prey drive, so homes with other pets such as birds, rodents, or reptiles may not be suited for the Dandie Dinmont.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier is considered to have a moderate energy level with no immense urge to be stimulated at all hours of the day. Having said this, it’s still crucial that these dogs are provided with mental and physical stimulation.
Interactive toys are a great way to keep Dandies occupied. A lot of these toy options can be great for solo play as well as a tool to help you bond with them. In addition to this, daily walks or participating in dog sports can also help.
However, they don’t make the best running or swimming partner for those looking to get themselves an exercise companion. The Dandie Dinmont may be fast but he may not have the best stamina compared to other breeds. He may also require constant supervision when allowed to dip his paws into bodies of water. This is because this breed isn’t accustomed to or built for water-based activities. They can certainly be taught to swim a little but it’s not recommended to allow them into deep water or to be left alone.

If by now you’re heavily considering getting yourself a Dandie Dinmont Terrier, take a look at the information below. This section will provide you with everything you need to know to be able to care for your Dandie dog.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier dog is adaptable in nature. This means that he’s well-suited for almost any size home whether that’s an apartment or large family home. To add, this also means that the Dandie can be a great addition to large families, couples, and even those who live alone.
If you have a home with a large garden, you will need to ensure that the area is appropriately fenced off. Dandies can often shoot off in pursuit of potential prey so it’s important to ensure that they will be unable to get out. Don’t be tempted to install an underground electronic fence as this will do little to deter them and may result in injury.
It’s recommended that the Dandie Dinmont Terrier begins socialization and obedience training from the minute you bring them home. As they are intelligent and adaptable dogs they can pick up on training quickly. However, make sure you use a positive approach. Dandies can sometimes be stubborn and won’t respond well to scolding. Therefore, it’s imperative that positive reinforcement is used offering rewards and verbal praise for their accomplishments.
Not only will training allow them to socialize effectively and calmly but it will also reduce the chances of them developing bad habits. Dandie Dinmont terriers can take to digging up gardens and terrorizing furniture for hobbies so it’s important to teach them good manners and where to direct their energy.
Like a lot of other canines, the Dandie Dinmont Terrier dog breed will need a high-quality diet with plenty of protein and other added nutritional ingredients. A great diet means a healthier dog. As tempting as it can be to throw them a treat or allow them scraps from the dinner table you must refrain!
An unhealthy diet and frequent access to non-nutritional foods will lead to weight gain and can open up the door to unwanted health conditions later in life. With this in mind, you will want to ensure that the food you give a Dandie Dinmont is appropriate for their age and breed.
How much you feed a Dandie Dinmont Terrier will depend on the factors mentioned previously (age and breed) but it will also depend on their current weight.
Take a look at our guide for the best food for small dogs here.
The Dandie Dinmont is not a high-energy dog but will need moderate exercise to help fend off obesity. Generally, they will need to be exercised between 30 and 60 minutes a day. This can be a walk or a generous game of fetch in the yard.
Note: Since Dandie terriers have high prey drives you must keep them on a leash when on walks to prevent them from pursuing squirrels and other smalls animals that catch their eye. It’s also recommended that accessible yards are fenced off to prevent them from breaking out and going on the lamb.
A Dandie Dinmont Terrier has a medium-length double coat composed of an upper, coarse layer and a smooth, waterproof undercoat. They can be considered high-maintenance in terms of grooming but you may be surprised to learn that Dandies are small dogs that don’t shed.
﻿
Despite their low shedding, Dandie dogs require frequent grooming. Regular brushing will help to remove loose, dead dog hair from their coats and prevent matting. In addition, their coats will need trimming intermittently and they will also need stripping once or twice a year. As a pet owner, you can learn to do this yourself, alternatively, you can take a trip to a professional groomer to get the job done.
In addition to trimming and brushing, it’s recommended that you bathe your Dandie when necessary to fend off bad odors and to help release the coat of dead hair. A Dandies long ears will need to be cleaned often to prevent ear infections.
Also, nail trimming is imperative, as long nails can be uncomfortable for dogs and can even affect their gate and posture. It’s also recommended that you take steps to ensure their dental hygiene is looked after. Dog owners can find an array of dental products in a local pet store or even online.
Generally, the Dandie Dinmont Terrier is considered a healthy dog overall. However, no dog breed is safe from damaging conditions/potential genetic health problems. The issues below have been found in this breed in the past but it’s also important to consider that not every dog will fall ill to them.
Although not common, Glaucoma has unfortunately affected Dandies in the past. The condition causes pressure around the eyes to increase resulting in incredible pain and discomfort. If left untreated, this condition can cause dogs to go blind.
Symptoms of glaucoma are redness in the white of the eyes, squinting, watery eyes, and irritation causing dogs to paw at them. Fortunately, vets are able to provide medication and eye drops to treat the issue.
This condition doesn’t just affect humans but dogs as well and it’s reported that Dandies have been known to develop it. This neurological issue can cause involuntary seizures in dogs and is believed to be genetic.
Not only can Dandies fall ill to the health problems listed above but it’s important to know that there are conditions that can affect your pooch if they are not looked after adequately. Making sure that their mouth and body weight is in good order can ensure that they live a long healthy life.
As with other dogs, poor dental hygiene can also lead to oral issues as your Dandie Dinmont ages. By allowing tartar to build up your dog can be at risk of tooth loss and problems affecting the kidneys, liver, joints, and heart.
If you want to know more about how to maintain your dog’s teeth and gums, we have a whole section dedicated to it. Take a look at this division to find the best tools and guides for taking care of your dog’s mouth.
Weight gain can affect most breeds, especially if their diet and exercise aren’t the best quality. Dogs are more likely to start putting on weight as they get older as they will become less active. This is why it’s important to monitor their food and exercise regime and adjust them accordingly depending on their age and size to ensure they remain at an appropriate weight.
If you’re looking to get yourself a Dandie Dinmont puppy from a breeder, make sure you check that the pups have been screened for health conditions. The breed may be considered healthy however there are still a number of issues that can affect them. For example, ask the breeder if the puppy’s parents have been certified by the canine eye registry foundation. If the parents have proven healthy eyes, your pup may be less likely to develop eye conditions in the future.
Simply ask the breeder for proof of appropriate health checks. If they flat out refuse to provide you any, this is a major red flag and you should think about going elsewhere and potentially reporting them.
In addition to the information above, it’s crucial that you take your dog, no matter what breed, to the vets for regular checkups. By doing so, you can be sure that they are either happy and healthy or be made aware of a problem early so that treatment can start as soon as possible.
Overall, the Dandie Dinmont Terrier dog breed is a healthy pooch and it’s worth noting that a lot of small dogs tend to have a longer life span compared to other breeds. The average, healthy adult dog can live up to 15 years.

Finding one of these friendly dogs can prove difficult in this day and age as the Dandie Dinmont is considered a rare breed. You may also find that the price of a Dandie pup is quite expensive compared to other dogs.
To find a Dandie pup, take a look at some breed clubs in your area as well as the AKC marketplace or even the Dandie Dinmont Terrier Club of America. These two sites are a great starting point and can provide additional information on finding a reputable breeder.
However, if you’re looking for an adult or older dog it may be worth getting in touch with breeders that can point you in the direction of one that needs a new home or is perhaps retired from a life of show business.
As mentioned earlier, a trustworthy breeder will provide you with all of the information you need about the pup and its parents especially documentation of their health checks.
Reliable breeders of purebred dogs will also allow potential puppy parents to view the breeding dogs and the pup’s siblings. This way, you can be sure that the puppy you are getting is 100% Dandie Dinmont and not a hybrid. Furthermore, by seeing the other dogs and their living conditions you can be sure you are buying from a professional and principled person and not supporting a puppy mill.
Although this canine is an uncommon breed that doesn’t mean to say one won’t pop up in a shelter or rescue center. In fact, there are rescue clubs dedicated to exposing puppy mills and rehoming these lovable, sweet dogs.
It can be immensely rewarding to rescue an animal that needs a loving home so it’s always worth checking your local shelters and rescue centers. You may not find one on your first couple of visits but don’t let that stop you from checking again.
For Dandies in need of a loving home, why not check the Dandie Rescue League. You may also find the AKC Rescue Network a valuable resource in finding a Dandie.
Brace yourself. Like other purebred dog breeds, you can expect to pay a decent amount for a Dandie Dinmont Terrier. A standard Dandie puppy will cost anywhere between $1500 and $3000. The price may be influenced by the breeder’s experience and tools.
The prices may also vary depending on the demand for Dandie Dinmont pups in their current area. If lots of dog owners are looking to buy a pup and there’s only one reliable breeder in the area, it’s possible for the prices to skyrocket.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier dog breed is a rare pooch with a lot to offer and it’s safe to say that they will be a loving, devoted family member. Generally, these dogs are a great fit for most homes and can be easily trained using the right methods. In addition, they seldom fall victim to major health conditions but that shouldn’t hinder you from taking great care of your furry friend.
Kugsha Dog: Breed Facts & Temperament
Teacup Dog Breeds: Everything You Need to Know
English Bulldog: Breed Facts, Pictures & Temperament
Azawakh Dog: Breed Facts & Temperament
Cockapoo: Dog Breed And Temperaments
Bolognese Dog: Breed Facts and Temperament
Papillon Dog: Breed Facts and Temperaments
Akita Dog: Breed Facts and Temperament
PetSide ©2025
--------------------------------------------------
Collection of all the general dog breed info about Dandie Dinmont Terrier so you can get to know the breed more.
Due to its popularity, inbreeding may occur. A new study shows that inbreeding contributes to the incidence of disease and health problems.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier ranks below average in the intelligence ranking of dogs.
Some dogs handle moderate punishment very well, while others crumble apart at a dirty look. This breed is not affected emotionally by moderate punishment.
Top reasons for barking: protection, alarm, fear, boredom, attention-seeking, greeting, separation anxiety, compulsive barking.
Low  🔽
Between 100 and 200 PSI  🔽
Dandie Dinmont Terrier bite wounds might not be as severe, but it is still essential to be cautious and prevent any biting incidents.
They are usually not aggressive and very friendly towards children and other animals. To ensure a well-behaved dog, it's essential to learn how to train a Dandie Dinmont Terrier puppy not to bite from an early age. With proper training and socialization, a Dandie Dinmont Terrier can be a wonderful addition to any family, providing love and companionship for years to come.
Do Dandie Dinmont Terrier dogs need a lot of exercises?
If you notice any weight gain, consult your veterinarian and make a diet plan. Reduce unhealthy food and snacks, and measure the Dandie Dinmont Terrier weight regularly.
Brushing the dog's coat is useful to reduce shedding. Ears and eyes should be cleaned regularly to avoid infections.
Don't skip the seasonal flea treatment too. Dog nail trimming and dog bath can be helpful sometimes.
Check the local pet store for dog grooming supplies and find the best dog shampoo to keep its coat healthy and give your dog a pleasant experience of a dog bath.
If you don't have the time, skill, or money to take care of your Dandie Dinmont Terrier, search for a dog groomer or clipping service in your area and book an appointment.
Maybe you're lucky to have a dog boarding service that includes grooming or walk-in dog bath places nearby.
If you notice any change in your dog's drooling habit, you should contact a vet as soon as possible.
Medium  ⏺
Bathing will wash away your dog’s natural oils, while a simple brushing every few days should keep them clean.
Not really This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for service purposes.
This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for service purposes.
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for service purposes.
Not really This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Not really They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for detection purposes.
They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Not really This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
Not really Dandie Dinmont Terrier breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Dandie Dinmont Terrier breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Not really A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Dandie Dinmont Terrier is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Not really In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
60-64 days
During this time the females start to attract males. You can notice by swelling vulva and bloody discharge.
The second part is the Estrus when the female is receptive for the male. It lasts for about 3 to 11 days.
The sign of the proestrus part is the soft and enlarged vulva. The discharge decreases and lightens in color.
The third part is the Diestrus. Normally, it occurs around day 14. In this period the female’s discharge changes for vivid red and coming to its end. The vulva returns to average, and she will no longer permit mating.
The fourth part called the Anestrus. The time frame between heat periods normally lasts about six months.
Once a year.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier’s origins can be traced back to the early 18th century, to the Cheviot Hills between England and Scotland. However, stories about how the breed was developed are very conflicting. Yet the certain thing is that the breed was believed to be especially good at dispatching four-legged prey, including poachers, badger, rabbit, weasel, otters, and other vermin.
According to some scientists, the Dandie Dinmont Terrier is the result of cross-breeding the Otterhound with some local terrier breeds, from the Border Country between Scotland and England. Other sources state that the Dandie Dinmont Terrie evolved from the rough-coated terriers commonly found on farms. The third story about the breed’s initial development believes that the breed emerged after crossing the Dachshund with some local terrier breeds.
Whichever theory is true, it has proven to be true that the Dandie Dinmont Terrier is the oldest distinct terrier breed, which now exists. Contrary to many other terrier breeds, the Dandie Dinmont Terrier did not change much since it was first developed during the early 1700s. The breed we know today resembles a high extent, to the one which was depicted in Gainsborough's 1770 portrait of Henry, 3rd Duke of Buccleuch, even though a number of other breeds have claimed that the dog presented with the Duke it actually their ancestor.
Despite the fact that the Dandie Dinmont Terrier was already long-established, the breed did not have a name, until Sir Walter Scott mentioned the breed in one of his books, Guy Mannering, which was published in 1814. Before then, all the terrier breeds were commonly called “Terrier”, they did not have any distinguishing or unique name. Sir Walter Scott, being a Dandie Dinmont Terrier owner, basically gave the breed their name. He told a story in his book about a farmer named Dandie Dinmont, who possessed multiple dogs of this breed, thus Sir Walter Scott named the breed, after this farmer. Interestingly, the Dandie Dinmont Terrier was the first terrier ever, to be given a distinctive, unique name.
The Dandie Dinmont Terrier caught the attention of 19th-century royals, like French King, Louis Philippe, who kept a couple of Dandies as part of his royal entourage. Later, in 1875, England’s first Dandie Dinmont Terrier Club was formed, and it is still in operation today, which makes this organization one of the oldest ones in the whole world. As a role of the organization, they wrote up a breed standard, which later helped the breed to get an AKC (American Kennel Club) recognition.
The AKC registered the Dandie Dinmont Terrier in 1886, at the AKC’s very first meeting, making the reed the third oldest member breed of the club. After that, during the late 19th century, the breed became especially well-known and loved in England, even Queen Victoria, being an avid dog lover, owned a couple of Dandies. Later, during the years before the Second World War, there were many famous kennels that bred the Dandie Dinmont Terrier. However, unfortunately, during the war, most of these kennels have disappeared. In some sad cases, the breeders had to put the dogs out, due to the lack of nutrition for them.
After the Second World War, some dedicated fanciers and breeders started working really hard in order to re-establish the Dandie Dinmont Terrier. One of the most famous kennels was Bellmead Kennel, they contributed to the breeding until the 1990s, and produced a specimen named Bellmead Delegate, who was a significant sire that won many shows. Nowadays, the Dandie Dinmont Terrier is one of the rarest and most endangered of all the purebred dog breeds. The Kennel Club in England put the breed on their list of endangered indigenous breeds, for the sad reason that there is the real possibility for the Dandie Dinmont Terrier to become extinct.
Jul 20, 2023, 1:46:22 AM:
Your review is absolutely if anything for the most part the exact opposite of what a Dandie is like. I have had 3 in my life and I know what I'm talking about. Just unbelievable the mis information here.
--------------------------------------------------
