Cat Breeds
Petite size, pixie-like facial features, and an incredibly sociable personality make the Devon Rex cat a favorite breed among cat lovers. The Devon Rex  has a unique coat that makes it stand out from the rest: soft, ultra-fine fur with a wavy texture—there’s nothing else quite like it.
If you've been looking for a non-shedding cat, the Devon Rex comes close. Although there's no such thing as a fully hypoallergenic cat breed, Devon Rex cats have such fine, short hair and shed so little that they leave barely a trace of themselves behind on furniture and clothing.
Elvin facial features, including massive wide-set eyes and huge bat-like ears, also contribute to the Devon Rex cat’s signature appearance. Their personalities might be described as elvish too. These fun-loving cats are incredibly inquisitive, often following their family members around in an attempt to be involved in whatever is happening.
Sometimes described as part dog, part cat, and part monkey, Devon Rex cats are accomplished climbers, and they’ll do whatever it takes to perch in the highest spot they can find, preferably one with a great view. They have an appreciation for tiny hiding places, too. Their owners might find them tucked behind the refrigerator, hiding under the sofa, or peering out from the insides of bookshelves.
Easily trained, Devon Rex find a great deal of enjoyment in outdoor walks (leashed, of course!) and rousing games of fetch. When playtime comes to an end, the Devon Rex loves to settle down and enjoy affectionate cuddles. These cats seek attention from their human family members, and they also have a reputation for getting along well with other pets.
While Devon Rex cats are friendly toward everyone, it’s worth noting that they tend to choose a favorite person with whom to share most of their affection. As talkative as they are cuddly, they tend to converse in a series of chirps and trills rather than traditional meows.
Devon Rex cats don’t have any special nutritional requirements, but they do need a high-quality food with ample protein. Since these cats are small-statured, obesity can cause serious joint pain and other issues. It’s very important to keep Devon Rex cats at the correct weight by offering the right amount of food and avoiding excess carbohydrates. Feed measured meals rather than leaving food out all the time, which can lead to overeating.
As low-maintenance cats go, the Devon Rex is a champion! These cats have barely any hair to brush, although they might enjoy a warm bath if poor distribution of body oils causes a greasy feel.
Keep your cat’s ears clean and teaching them to accept daily teeth brushing. Trim the nails every few weeks.
The Devon Rex is an athletic breed and you shouldn’t have to make much of an effort to keep them entertained. At the same time, your cat will appreciate a well-stocked basket of toys, as well as a cat tree and at least one scratching post. They'll be happy to play fetch with you and learn other tricks  whenever you have time.
While the Devon Rex generally enjoys good health, there are some known issues with the breed, including hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which is a form of heart disease. Some have hereditary myopathy called Devon Rex myopathy, which is an inherited condition that affects muscle function. Some Devon Rex have a musculoskeletal disorder called patellar luxation.
Because their coats are thin, Devon Rex cats are prone to sunburn and chills. They must be kept in a warm, indoor environment.
In 1959, a short-haired domestic cat owned by Beryl Cox of Buckfastleigh, Devon, England, gave birth to a litter of kittens. One of these had a short, curly coat. The litter’s father was believed to be a tomcat with a curly coat, that frequented an old abandoned tin mill in the area.
Beryl Cox knew about the Cornish Rex cat breed and she thought that the curly coated kitten might be related. She named the kitten Kirlee and when he matured, she brought him to a Cornish Rex cat breeder, who paired him with one of their females.
The resulting litter contained kittens with normal, straight coats, signifying that Kirlee had a different genetic mutation than the Cornish Rex. The gene that gives the Devon Rex’s coat its unique texture is Devon gene. Eventually, a breeding program was established and the Devon Rex was developed as as separate breed. Even today, all Devon Rex cats can be traced directly back to Kirlee, the original curly coated kitten.
With a successful breeding program in place, the Devon Rex quickly gained popularity. Devons first made their way to the United States in 1968, and in 1979, the breed was officially recognized by the Cat Fanciers’ Association (CFA). Today, the Devon Rex is accepted by The International Cat Association (TICA) and all other major cat registries.
Even though the Devon Rex cat shares some similarities in appearance with Cornish Rex and German Rex cats, the three breeds are distinct as their coats are produced by different gene mutations.
If you think the Devon Rex cat looks a bit like the character Yoda from the Star Wars series, you might be right! Steven Spielberg had a Devon Rex cat as his personal pet and urban legend states that his cat influenced Yoda's appearance.
Devon Rex cats are heat-seeking cuddlers. If you let your cat sleep with you, don't be surprised if they try to join you under the covers.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Devon Rex, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Devon Rex or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Devon Rex, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Devon Rex cats cost between $600-$2,000.
Devon Rex cats tend to be small in size. A fully grown Devon Rex cat might weigh between 6-9 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 12"-14" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Devon Rex is 10-15 years.
Devon Rex are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
i have a devon rex.  he’s a doll!  playful, cuddles, gets along with the other kitties.  he has even made the standoffish bully play with him.  and, oh lord, he smurgles!  it really is a thing, look it up.  my only complaint is that as of now, he sneaks up and nose dives into whatever i’m eating
Nice! He sounds adorable and like a wonderful kitty.
--------------------------------------------------
Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
The Devon Rex is small to medium in size with a very distinctive look. They have large eyes and high cheek bones that add to their overall endearing pixie-like looks. They also boast lovely soft wrinkly coats that are extremely velvety to the touch. On top of their unique looks the Devon Rex boasts having a kind playful nature which when paired to their intelligence has made them a popular family pet and companion albeit it a rather mischievous
The Devon Rex is native to the UK and as their name suggests they were first bred in the county of Devon. The breed is a relative newcomer to the cat world and boasts an interesting history. It was a tortie and white cat that produced a litter of kittens after having mated with a feral tom cat. Among the kittens was a male cat that boasted a brown/black coat much like the sire's. The breeder named the kitten Kirlee having decided to keep him. They knew about Kallibunker the first Cornish Rex and how other breeders were working to develop this new gene and asked whether Kirlee could be used in the Cornish Rex’s breeding programme.
Unfortunately the gene that created Kirlee's wavy coat was not the same as that of the Cornish Rex which saw cats with well-defined even waves in their coats. As such breeders began to develop the Devon Rex as a breed in its own right. Kirlee the first Devon Rex is therefore the ancestor of all Devons seen today. However from 1967 right up to 1984 both the Devon and the Cornish Rex were classed as the same breed. Then in 1984 the Devon was recognised as a breed in its own right and today has become a popular companion and family pet thanks to their adorable pixie-like looks and charming loving intelligent natures.
As previously mentioned they have slender necks and well-muscled bodies. Chest are broad and legs are long slender with their back legs being slightly longer than their front ones. Paws are oval-shaped and small. The Devon has a long tapering tail that well covered in short hair.
When it comes to their coat the Devon Rex boasts having a short dense soft coat that consists of loose curls ripples and waves that is extremely velvety to the touch. The ripples tend to be more pronounced on a cat's back their flanks and tails although their wrinkles can also go down their legs too. Their eyebrows and whiskers are moderately long and crinkled although because they often break off these tend to be stubbly. Their coats can be just about any colour with or without any white markings and just about any sort of pattern.
The Devon Rex is an intelligent cat and one that boasts having a lot of energy. They are not only pixie-like in looks but they can be rather mischievous too loving nothing more than to play whenever they can. They are very capable of jumping up to great heights which often finds a Devon perched on top of sideboards door frames and anywhere else that's nice and high so they can look down on the world below and pounce on whoever happens to pass them by.
Devons are extremely people-oriented and form strong ties with their families. They like to be involved in everything that goes on in their environment and will perch on an owner's shoulder to watch what they are doing whether they are working on a computer or doing the cooking. However Devons are super affectionate by nature and love to curl up on a nice warm lap when they've finished playing that is. Although Devons are not particularly talkative they do make a lovely little sound which is more of a "chirp" than it is a meow.
They are best suited to households where at least one person stays at home when everyone else is out because Devons thrive on human contact and don't like to be left on their own for any length of time. If they are left to their own devices they can be a little destructive around the home but only because they get bored quickly and need to be kept occupied.
Although they have good coats Devons do feel the cold. They are very quick at finding the cosiest spot to lie in which includes on top of laptops and any other devices that give off any sort of warmth. They have often been referred to as being quite dog-like in their ways which sees a Devon following an owner from room to room so they can keep an eye on what they are up to which is yet another of their endearing traits.
The Devon Rex is an intelligent cat and one that learns things quickly. As previously mentioned many owners think their pets are very dog-like in some of their behaviours. They like playing and can be quite mischievous at times especially as they are known to have a limitless amount of energy. They like to retrieve toys and will spend hours playing with the kids before snuggling up on someone's warm lap for a snooze which is another reason why they have fast become such a popular family pet.
Devons with their outgoing affectionate personalities are the perfect choice for families with children and this includes toddlers. They are quick on their feet and therefore know when to get out of the reach of smaller children when they get too boisterous or loud. However younger children need to be taught how to behave around cats to prevent any mishaps. As such any interaction between children and cats should always be well supervised.
They also get on well with dogs as long as they are good around cats that is. However care has to be taken when introducing a Devon to dogs they don't already know just in case the dog does not get on with their feline counterparts. When it comes to smaller animals and pets it's always wiser to keep a close eye on any cat when they are around smaller pets just in case.
The average life expectancy of a Devon Rex is between 12 and 16 years when properly cared for and fed an appropriate good quality diet to suit their ages.
The Devon is known to suffer from few hereditary health issues but the one worth knowing about if you are planning share your home with one of these extraordinary cats is as follows:
As with any other breed the Devon Rex needs to be groomed on a regular basis to make sure their coats and skin are kept in top condition. On top of this cats need to be fed good quality food that meets all their nutritional needs throughout their lives which is especially true of kittens and older cats.
Devons boast having short close lying coats and as such they are low maintenance on the grooming front. A weekly brush and wipe over with a chamois leather is all it takes to keep their coats in good condition. They do shed just like other breeds only less profusely. With this said much like other breeds Devons shed the most in the Spring and then again in the Autumn when more frequent brushing is usually necessary to keep on top of things.
It's also important to check a cat's ears on a regular basis and to clean them when necessary. If too much wax is allowed to build up it can lead to a painful infection which can be hard to clear up. In short prevention is often easier than cure with ear infections. Cats often suffer from ear mites which can be a real problem which is why it's so important to check their ears on a regular basis.
The Devon Rex boasts having a ton of energy and loves nothing more than to play interactive games with their owners whenever they can. They can be rather mischievous which is part of their charm and why many people choose to share their homes with one of these pixie-like cats.
Cats that are kept as indoor pets need to be given lots of things to do and places to hide when they want to bearing in mind that the Devon loves to climb up high so they can look down on the world below them. They also need to have lots of places they can snuggle up for a snooze when the mood takes them because if there is one thing Devons are really good at it's napping during the day.
If you get a Devon Rex kitten from a breeder they would give you a feeding schedule and it's important to stick to the same routine feeding the same kitten food to avoid any tummy upsets. You can change a kitten's diet but this needs to be done very gradually always making sure they don't develop any digestive upsets and if they do it's best to put them back on their original diet and to discuss things with the vet before attempting to change it again.
Older cats are not known to be fussy eaters but this does not mean they can be given a lower quality diet. It's best to feed a mature cat several times a day making sure it's good quality food that meets all their nutritional requirements which is especially important as cats get older. It's also essential to keep an eye on a cat's weight because if they start to put on too much it can have a serious impact on their overall health and wellbeing. Like all other breeds Devons need free access to fresh clean water at all times.
If you are looking to buy a Devon Rex you would need to pay anything from £200 to over £500 for a well-bred pedigree kitten. The cost of insuring a male 3-year-old Devon Rex in northern England would be £15.64 a month for basic cover but for a lifetime policy this would set you back £25. 32 a month (quote as of Sept 2016). When insurance companies calculate a pet's premium they factor in several things which includes where you live in the UK a cat's age and whether or not they have been neutered or spayed among other things.
When it comes to food costs you need to buy the best quality food whether wet or dry making sure it suits the different stages of a cat’s life. This would set you back between £15 - £20 a month. On top of all of this you need to factor in veterinary costs if you want to share your home with a Devon and this includes their initial vaccinations their annual boosters the cost of neutering or spaying a cat when the time is right and their yearly health checks all of which quickly adds up to over £400 a year.
As a rough guide the average cost to keep and care for a Devon Rex would be between £30 to £45 a month depending on the level of insurance cover you opt to buy for your cat but this does not include the initial cost of buying a well-bred kitten.
--------------------------------------------------
The Devon Rex cat is renowned for their unique appearance and playful personality. Characterized by their large, low-set ears, short curly coat, and large, expressive eyes, the Devon Rex has a pixie-like or impish look. The soft, wavy coat is one of their most notable features, and they lack the guard hairs that most cat breeds have, giving them a soft and downy texture. The breed comes in various colors and patterns, and their slender, muscular bodies add to their overall elegant yet mischievous appearance.
Beyond their physical traits, the Devon Rex is also recognized for their friendly and affectionate nature. These cats are often described as “people-oriented” and enjoy being involved in their human family’s activities. Devons are known to form strong bonds with their owners and are often found perched on shoulders or snuggled in laps. Their playful and active nature makes them excellent companions for families, and their love of climbing and exploring provides endless entertainment. The Devon Rex is generally a healthy breed, and their low-maintenance coat makes them suitable for those who prefer a cat with minimal grooming needs.
When considering a Devon Rex, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Devon Rex kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Devon Rex breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats. They also conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
It was first thought that Kirlee, a kitten born in Devon, England, in 1959, shared the same genetic makeup as the Cornish Rex, a breed born a decade earlier in nearby Cornwall, but test breedings soon established that Kirlee was unique, another result of a natural genetic mutation.
As suggested by his name, Kirlee had a wavy coat. Little is known of his ancestry. His mother was a stray, and his father was thought to be a roaming tom who also had a curly coat. Kirlee became the progenitor of a new breed, the Devon Rex, named for his birthplace of Devonshire, as well as his curly coat, which had a texture reminiscent of that of a rex rabbit. Less than a decade later, in 1968, a Devon Rex had emigrated to the United States. The Cat Fanciers Association gave the breed full recognition in 1979.
The Devon Rex weigh 5 to 10 pounds.
The Devon’s favorite perch is right at head level, on the shoulder of his favorite person. He takes a lively interest in everything that is going on and refuses to be left out of any activity. Count on him to stay as close to you as possible, occasionally communicating his opinions in a quiet voice. He loves people and welcomes the attentions of friends and family alike.
This is a smart cat with a moderate activity level. He’s not in constant motion, but he does like to learn tricks and play fetch. Puzzle toys and interactive toys are a delight to his inventive brain and will help to keep him occupied while you are out earning money to buy more of them.
At mealtime, the Devon will try to seat himself at the dining room table with the rest of the family, sure that the food you have prepared is just for him. He likes to eat and will snack himself into a few extra pounds if you don’t carefully monitor his food intake.
Under the covers is his preferred place to sleep. Like a heat-seeking missile, he targets the warmest spots he can find.
Choose a Devon if you will enjoy the company of a mischievous, agile cat and won’t be alarmed to see him peering down at you from the top of a door, plotting the trajectory to your shoulder.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Devon Rex are generally healthy, but the following diseases have been seen in the breed:

The Devon’s wavy coat is easy to maintain. Groom gently so you don’t break the delicate hairs. In many cases, brushing your hand over the coat is all it needs. The best thing about a Devon Rex coat is that it doesn’t shed much, and the fur is so fine that it isn’t very noticeable on clothing and furniture.
Baths are rarely necessary unless the cat is white or has a lot of white on the coat. Those cats can start to look dingy if they are not regularly bathed. The coat dries quickly after a bath. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Wipe the corners of the eyes daily with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Like all cats, Devon Rex are very particular about bathroom hygiene. The Devon Rex feels warm to the touch, but he is always seeking warmth. If you are cold, he probably is too. Buy him a nice sweater or two to help him retain heat. It’s a good idea to keep a Devon Rex as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car.
Devon Rex who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such an unusual cat without paying for it. If possible, build your Devon Rex a large outdoor enclosure where he can jump and climb safely. If your Devon Rex has an outdoor enclosure that allows for sunbathing, be sure to apply cat-safe sunscreen to his body to prevent sunburn.
The Devon has large, wide-set, oval-shaped eyes and strikingly large ears set low on the head. Sometimes the tips of the ears are tufted with fine fur. A “rexed” coat is soft and fine, appearing to be without the harsh guard hairs that characterize most cat coats. The cat’s body is well covered with fur, most thickly on the back, sides, tail, legs, face and ears. Some Devons have loose, shaggy curls, while others have a coat that is more thin and suedelike. The hair on the top of the head, the neck, chest and abdomen is slightly less dense and may even look downy, but the cat should never have bare patches. Smooth the coat with your hand and rippled waves appear.
It comes in any genetically possible color, pattern or combination of colors and patterns, including solid white, black, blue, chocolate, cinnamon, lavender and red;  smoke patterns, which are a white undercoat deeply tipped with a specific color; and various calico, tabby, tortoiseshell and pointed patterns. A Devon’s medium-size body is deceptively slender, unless the cat has been sneaking too many snacks. His body should feel hard and muscular. The legs are long and slim, supported by small, oval paws. A long, fine tail covered with short fur tapers at the end.
The active and social Devon Rex is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He will play fetch as well as any retriever, learns tricks easily and loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed pages!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
With their impish looks and mischievous personalities, the Devon Rex are the pixies of cats. Intelligent and highly active, they thrive in a busy household. Leaving them alone for long is unwise as they can become bored and look for things with which to amuse themselves. They are great with children and get along well with other family pets. They don’t require much grooming and in many cases, brushing your hand over the coat is all they needs. Find out more about this breed and if the Devon Rex is right for you and your family.
Playful
Devons are medium-sized cats – with females 5-7 lbs. and males 7-9 lbs.
14-17+ years
Devons come in all colors.
Devons come in all colors.
Sphynx, 
Cornish Rex
Persian
Devons are very people oriented and welcome the attention of friends and family. If you are sitting, they will be in your lap, if you are in bed, they will join you under the covers. They are interested in everything and hate to be left out of any activity. Devons like to stay close to their families and love to be perched on the shoulder of their favorite person. They are very people-oriented and welcome the attentions of friends and family.
They are relatively non-shedding, and some allergy sufferers can often tolerate them with little reaction.
The Devon is a breed of unique appearance. Its large eyes, short muzzle, prominent cheek-bones and huge low-set ears create a characteristic elfin look. A cat of medium frame, the Devon is well covered with short, full-bodied, wavy fur; the fur is of a distinctive texture, as the mutation causing its wavy coat is found in no other breed. Devons may have down on underparts of the body; this is not bareness. Allowances may be made for lack of full coat development on kittens with very good type, over fully coated lesser type. Devon males may be up to 25 percent larger than females. This is not a fault so long as proper proportion is maintained. The Devon is alert and active and shows a lively interest in its surroundings.
Devons are very intelligent and moderately active. They love their toys and are good at amusing themselves. Puzzle and interactive toys will keep them occupied when they are alone. They like to learn tricks and many will fetch a toy for you to throw.
The active and social Devon Rex is a perfect choice for families with children, other cats, and cat-friendly dogs.
Want to connect with fellow cat lovers and those who love the same breed as you?TICA is a large resource made up of smaller regions and clubs around the world.Click here to find a club near you and contact information for your regional director and website.
Wherever you are, you’re in TICA’s world!®
The TICA website is the only place where you can find TICA member breeders who have signed the TICA Code of Ethics.
Devon Rex are the pixies of the cat fancy with their impish looks and mischievous personalities. The Devon Rex have large low set ears and big impish eyes set in a head with a short muzzle and high cheekbones. It is a small to medium sized cat with a muscular body covered with a short, velvety soft coat that ripples with waves. They are often described as resembling the Gremlins from the film Star Wars while the waif-like tousled curls of their coats are reminiscent of Little Orphan Annie’s tousled mop.
Buckfastleigh, Devon, England is the ancestral home of the Devon Rex where a feral tom cat with a curly coat lived in an abandoned tin mine. In 1960, a tortie & white stray adopted by Miss Beryl Cox had a litter of kittens sired by the feral tom. One of the kittens was a brownish-black male with a coat just like his sire’s. Miss Cox kept the kitten and named him Kirlee. Aware of Kallibunker (the first Cornish Rex) and the work to preserve that new gene, she wrote to Brian Sterling-Webb thinking her Kirlee could contribute to that program. However it turned out that the gene creating Kirlee’s curly coat was different to the one producing Kallibunker’s marcelled waves. There were a number of differences in the coat between Kirlee and the CR. While Kalli had whiskers that were bent and curled, the gene from Devon resulted in missing or stubby whiskers. Kirlee had tight curls but not as uniform as those of Kallibunker giving them a windblown appearance. And Kirlee had huge, low-set ears giving his head a pixie-like look that was accentuated by the large, inquisitive eyes and short nose.
Breeders started developing a program to conserve the gene discovered in Devon too. The gene discovered in Cornwall was designated Gene 1 and that discovered in Devon Gene 2. Sterling-Webb (Briarry) now worked to conserve this gene as well along with Mrs. Agnes Watts (Du-Bu) and Mrs. Madge Shrouder (Hassan). All Devon Rex trace their ancestry back to Kirlee who was sadly killed in a car accident in 1970.
Devon Rex are intelligent, mischievous and highly active. They are very playful and want to be involved in everything – and they are powerful jumpers no spot goes unexplored! Expect to find them perching on the top of doors or climbing to some previously unexplored spot. Although they are interested in everything going on around them, Devons are very people-oriented and prefer to share their investigations with you so expect their company no matter what you are doing. They will perch on your shoulder watching you make supper (food is another of their favorite things!), curl in your lap while you read a book, and snuggle under the covers to sleep with you at night. They aren’t particularly talkative but do chirp when they feel they absolutely need you to look at something that has caught their interest. These busy little pixies work well in an active household as they thrive on company but should not be left alone for long periods as they can become destructive if they get bored. They are great with children and get along well with other family pets.
Devon Rex are well-muscled, mid-sized cats weighing on average from six to nine pounds, with males being heavier than females. Their soft, short, curly coats vary from cat to cat – the ideal show coat is an even, full coat of loose curls but individual cats will have coats ranging from a tousled mop of curls to a thin suede-like coat. Some cats may also have almost bare patches as well. The coats often vary over the life of the cat and when molting the coat will often break off so no curl is apparent until the new coat grows back. Kittens often go through this stage. The whiskers and eyebrows are also short and crinkled like the coat.
One of the startling things when you pick up a Devon is how warm they are to the touch – they feel like soft hot water bottles and are ideal to snuggle up to in winter. They have the same body temperature as other cats but their coat does not provide as much insulation and so they feel warmer. They also love heat and will be found basking in the windows or seeking other sources of heat like the top of the television.
Contrary to popular opinion, Devon Rex do shed just like all other cats however the structure of the coat makes the shedding less obtrusive than in some other breeds. For some reason, there is a perception that the Devon Rex is hypo-allergenic however they do produce allergens like every other cat. Some people with allergies to cats are able to tolerate Devons but others are not depending on their personal allergies. If you are allergic and are considering a Devon, you should make arrangements to spend some time in the company of a Devon before acquiring one. Visit with one and wait at least 24 hours to see if they do elicit an allergic reaction and ideally visit more than once. Pixie-like in appearance, the Devon Rex is a small- to medium-sized cat that retains the appearance of Kirlee, the foundation cat. Its sturdy body is muscular, with hind legs longer than the forelegs. It has a modified wedge shaped head with large, inquisitive eyes, broad cheekbones, strong chin and a short muzzle. The ears are large and low set. The compact, supple body is covered with loose waves and curls. These little minxes are friendly, intelligent, curious companions and will make a playful addition to your household.
The Devon Rex is considered an overall healthy breed. However, it is recommended that all Devons be genetically tested for all available genetic markers, including Devon myopathy, and parents should be scanned for HCM.
Devons have a short wavy coat with modified guard hairs and little undercoat. They shed very little. If they have a spot they like to sleep, you will eventually see a fine coating of “lint”. Kittens may molt at around 3 months, and the coat will develop and come in over the next six or so months.
Large ears tend to collect oily buildup and should be cleaned when they look “dirty”. Claws should be trimmed weekly. As with all cats, brush their teeth regularly with a vet-approved pet toothpaste and provide a nice tall scratching pole to help their natural scratching instinct.
Some Devons really love to eat and need to have strict feeding limits, while others are very good at self-regulating. Kittens need to be fed three times a day until they are six months, after that twice a day is optimal. Many Devons are “snackers” and like to have kibble available rather than limited wet food.
As with all cats, it is important to give your cat fresh, clean water daily. Fresh, clean water is best, so cats don’t hesitate to drink. If you worry about your cat drinking enough water each day, here’s a tip from cat behaviorists – place the water bowl at least three feet away from any food. Cats’ noses are sensitive and an overwhelming smell of food may cause them to drink less. Filtered drinking fountains can also be used in place of a water bowl.
Join the Cat Care Community!
Sign up now for exclusive monthly cat care tips delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your name and email below to stay updated with the best advice for your kitty companions!
"*" indicates required fields
--------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
Looking for a unique and affectionate feline companion? The Devon Rex cat breed might just steal your heart. Renowned for their distinctive curly coat and playful nature, these cats are a delight.
In this comprehensive care sheet, cat parents will discover everything they need about the Devon Rex breed – from their historical origins to their specific care requirements.
Originating in England during the 1960s, the Devon Rex’s genetic mutation resulted in its signature wavy fur, making it stand out among other breeds. Their energetic and sociable temperament makes them wonderful additions to any household.
This guide will provide insights into grooming needs, dietary requirements, health considerations, and tips for ensuring a happy coexistence with your charming Devon Rex companion.
| Kingdom | Animalia | | Phylum | Chordata | | Class | Mammalia | | Order | Carnivora | | Family | Felidae | | Genus | Felis | | Species | F. catus |
The Devon Rex cat breed has a fascinating origin story. It originated in England during the 1960s and is the result of a genetic mutation. Crossbreeding with the Cornish Rex influenced the breed’s development, contributing to its unique characteristics. Named after its birthplace, Devonshire, this breed is known for its distinctive curly coat, setting it apart from other feline breeds.
The Cornish Rex’s influence on the Devon Rex’s development is evident in their shared distinctive features. The Devon Rex boasts large ears and a short wavy coat that sets it apart from other breeds. Their slender body gives them a pixie-like appearance, while their curled or crinkled whiskers add to their charm. These cats are considered hypoallergenic due to minimal shedding, making them an excellent choice for individuals with allergies.
One of the most striking features of the Devon Rex cat breed is its unique physical attributes. These cats are easily recognizable by their large ears and short wavy coat, giving them an unmistakable appearance that sets them apart from other feline companions. Their slender bodies contribute to their pixie-like look, adding to their allure as pets in households around the world.
In addition to their physical traits, Devon Rex cats are beloved for their playful and mischievous personalities. They often exhibit high levels of energy and curiosity, making them entertaining companions for families and individuals alike.
As a medium-sized breed with a slender build, Devon Rex cats typically weigh between 5 to 10 pounds when fully grown. Despite being small in size compared to some other breeds, they have robust physiques that reflect good health and vitality throughout their lives.
These delightful felines have an average lifespan ranging from 10-15 years when provided with proper care and attention. Unlike some breeds that mature quickly within months after birth,** Devons tend not reach full size until around two years old**, allowing owners ample time to enjoy watching them grow into adulthood.
Devon Rex cats are highly sociable and affectionate. They thrive on companionship and interaction, enjoying the company of people and other pets. Due to their social nature, they may develop separation anxiety if left alone for extended periods. This breed truly enjoys being an active part of the family dynamic.
Their need for constant interaction means that they often seek out human or pet companionship when left alone. This makes them a perfect fit for households where someone is usually around during the day or where there are other pets present.
The Devon Rex cat breed is known for its high intelligence and quick learning abilities. These felines are natural problem solvers who enjoy mental stimulation through interactive toys and puzzles. Their sharp minds make them adept at picking up new tricks, solving treat puzzles, or even learning to walk on a leash with proper training.
Owners can engage their Devon Rex in various mentally stimulating activities like hide-and-seek games with treats hidden around the house or teaching them to fetch small toys. The satisfaction derived from successfully completing these tasks helps keep these intelligent cats happy and content.
Known for their energetic and playful nature, Devon Rex cats retain their kitten-like playfulness well into adulthood. They love engaging in interactive play sessions with toys or owners alike, making them ideal companions for families looking for an entertaining pet.
Their lively disposition also makes it essential to provide ample opportunities for physical activity throughout the day to prevent boredom-induced mischief such as knocking things over or getting into places they shouldn’t be in search of entertainment.
Devon Rex cats require a balanced diet tailored to their unique needs. High-quality protein sources are essential for muscle maintenance in these active felines. Providing them with a regular feeding schedule is crucial to prevent obesity and maintain their overall health. By offering portion-controlled meals, you can ensure that your Devon Rex receives the right amount of nutrition without overindulging.
Consider incorporating high-protein foods such as chicken, turkey, or fish when planning your cat’s diet. These protein sources support their muscular structure and energize them for their bursts of activity throughout the day. Including quality wet food in their diet can help maintain hydration levels and support urinary tract health.
As with any pet, it’s important to consult a veterinarian regarding specific dietary requirements based on age, weight, and any existing health conditions your Devon Rex may have.
Devon Rex cats exhibit moderate activity levels but often experience bursts of energy that require an outlet. Engaging in interactive play sessions daily is crucial to keeping these intelligent and curious felines mentally stimulated and physically active. Investing in toys that encourage movement and agility will help satisfy their playful nature while providing much-needed exercise.
In addition to playtime, providing climbing structures within your home will allow Devon Rex cats to indulge in natural behaviors such as perching at elevated heights or exploring vertical spaces. This not only fulfills their need for physical activity but also offers entertainment while mimicking the sensation of being up high – something they naturally enjoy.
By dedicating time each day to interact with your Devon Rex through play or providing opportunities for independent exploration within safe indoor environments ensures they remain contented companions.
Creating warm and cozy living spaces is essential when caring for a Devon Rex cat breed due to its preference for comfort and security. Providing soft bedding options allows them to curl up comfortably whenever they desire rest or relaxation. Elevated resting spots like cat trees or window perches cater perfectly to this breed’s love for height-seeking behavior while giving them a sense of security by overseeing their surroundings from above.
Furthermore, offering hiding places within your home provides additional comfort by allowing them privacy during times of stress or simply when seeking solace away from household activities.
The Devon Rex has a low-maintenance coat, requiring minimal grooming. Their unique curly hair doesn’t shed much, making them an ideal choice for individuals with allergies or those who prefer a tidy home. A quick brush once a week is usually sufficient to remove loose hair and distribute natural oils across their skin.
The Devon Rex’s distinctive coat also means they are less prone to matting compared to other breeds. This characteristic not only makes grooming easier but also reduces the likelihood of discomfort for the cat during brushing sessions. However, it’s essential to use gentle brushes specifically designed for cats to avoid causing any irritation or damage to their delicate skin.
Regularly checking your Devon Rex’s skin condition is crucial in ensuring their overall health and well-being. Look out for any signs of dryness, redness, or flakiness that may indicate underlying issues such as allergies or dermatitis. If you notice anything unusual, consulting a veterinarian can help address potential concerns early on.
Nail trimming is an important aspect of caring for your Devon Rex. While these cats are generally active and playful, regular nail trims can prevent accidental scratches and minimize damage caused by overgrown claws around the house.
Introducing your Devon Rex kitten to nail trimming from an early age helps them become accustomed to the process and reduces anxiety during future sessions. Using specialized pet nail clippers ensures precision while minimizing discomfort for your feline companion.
Trimming frequency varies among individual cats but aiming for every 1-2 weeks can help maintain optimal nail length without reaching the quick – a sensitive part containing blood vessels inside each claw.
When considering adopting a Devon Rex, it’s important to be aware of certain hereditary conditions that may affect this breed. One notable condition is hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), which is characterized by thickening of the heart muscles and can lead to heart failure if left untreated. Another hereditary concern specific to this breed involves patellar luxation, where dislocation of kneecaps causes mobility issues in affected cats. Being informed about these potential health issues allows owners and prospective adopters alike to provide appropriate care based on their cat’s individual needs.
The Devon Rex is generally a healthy breed, but like all cats, they can be prone to certain hereditary conditions. One common issue in the breed is hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), which is a heart disease that affects the muscles of the heart. It’s crucial for Devon Rex owners to be aware of this condition and have their cats regularly screened by a veterinarian to monitor their heart health.
Another potential hereditary condition in Devon Rex cats is patellar luxation, where the kneecap dislocates from its normal position. This can cause discomfort and lameness in affected cats. Regular vet check-ups are essential for early detection and management of such conditions.
Regular grooming sessions provide an excellent opportunity for owners to inspect their cat’s skin, coat, eyes, ears, teeth, and overall body condition. By doing so regularly as part of grooming routine will help detect any abnormalities or signs of illness early on.
Maintaining good heart health in your Devon Rex involves more than just regular veterinary check-ups; it also requires providing them with a balanced diet rich in nutrients essential for cardiovascular well-being. A high-quality cat food formulated specifically for the needs of active breeds like the Devon Rex will ensure they receive adequate nutrition to support their energetic lifestyle.
In addition to proper nutrition, engaging your Devon Rex in regular playtime activities not only keeps them physically fit but also supports their cardiac health by promoting circulation and maintaining optimal energy levels. Interactive toys or games that encourage exercise are great ways to keep your cat’s heart healthy while providing mental stimulation too.
Preventative measures play a significant role in ensuring the overall well-being of your Devon Rex. Providing them with a nutritious diet tailored to meet their specific dietary requirements helps prevent obesity-related issues such as diabetes and joint problems. Regular dental care is another vital preventative measure that contributes significantly towards maintaining your cat’s general health.
Consistency is key. Use positive reinforcement techniques like treats and praise to encourage good behavior. If your cat displays unwanted behavior, such as scratching furniture or jumping on counters, redirect their attention to a more suitable activity. For example, provide scratching posts and elevated perches as alternatives.
Devon Rex cats are known for their playful nature, so engaging them in interactive play sessions can help channel their energy positively. Providing mental stimulation through puzzle toys or food-dispensing toys can prevent boredom-related behavioral issues.
It’s essential to establish routines for feeding, playtime, and grooming early on. This helps the cat feel secure and reduces anxiety that might lead to undesirable behaviors. By creating a predictable environment with consistent rules and boundaries, you can effectively train your Devon Rex cat.
Socializing a Devon Rex cat involves exposing them to various people, environments, and experiences from an early age. Introduce your kitten gradually to new situations while ensuring they feel safe and secure throughout the process. Positive encounters with different individuals will help them become comfortable around strangers.
Encouraging gentle handling during social interactions is crucial for fostering trust between the cat and its human family members. Regular handling also helps accustom the cat to being touched all over its body—this makes veterinary exams easier in the future.
Exposing your Devon Rex cat to other pets in a controlled manner can aid in developing good social skills with other animals. Supervised introductions allow them to learn how to communicate with other pets effectively without feeling threatened or anxious.
Litter training a Devon Rex kitten typically starts when they are around four weeks old as they begin exploring their surroundings more independently at this stage of development. Introduce the litter box by placing the kitten inside after meals or naps since these are times when they are likely looking for a place to eliminate waste. Ensure that the litter box is easily accessible yet placed away from their feeding area as cats prefer not to eliminate near where they eat. Use unscented clumping litter initially as it closely resembles natural soil which most kittens find appealing. Regularly clean the litter box—cats prefer clean elimination areas so maintaining cleanliness encourages consistent use of the designated spot.
Devon Rex cats are often considered hypoallergenic, making them a great choice for people with allergies. Unlike other cat breeds, they produce fewer allergens due to their unique coat. This is because Devon Rex cats have less fur and shed less than other breeds, resulting in lower dander production.
People with allergies to cats may find that they have fewer allergic reactions when exposed to Devon Rex cats compared to other breeds. The reduced shedding and dander can make it easier for allergy sufferers to coexist with these feline companions without experiencing severe symptoms such as sneezing, itching, or watery eyes.
The unique coat of the Devon Rex plays a significant role in their hypoallergenic qualities. Their soft, curly fur lacks the typical guard hairs found in most cat coats. As a result, these cats shed very little and produce minimal dander. This makes them an excellent choice for individuals who love cats but struggle with allergies.
One of the key factors contributing to the hypoallergenic nature of Devon Rex cats is their minimal shedding and low dander production. While all animals produce some level of dander – tiny flecks of skin that can trigger allergic reactions – this breed’s reduced shedding means there is less loose hair carrying allergens around the home.
Due to their unique coat structure, Devon Rexes do not leave behind as much hair on furniture or clothing as other cat breeds do. This can be beneficial for allergy sufferers since it reduces exposure to airborne allergens commonly associated with pet ownership.
Regular grooming practices such as bathing and brushing can further minimize any potential issues related to shedding or dander among Devon Rexes. By keeping their coat clean and well-maintained through grooming routines specifically tailored for this breed’s needs, owners can help mitigate any residual allergens present on the cat’s fur.
Finding a responsible breeder is crucial. Responsible breeders prioritize the health and well-being of their cats, ensuring that they are bred ethically and in accordance with breed standards. They provide proper veterinary care, socialization, and suitable living conditions for their cats.
Responsible breeders also conduct thorough screening of potential owners to ensure that the kittens are going to loving homes where they will receive adequate care and attention. They offer guidance on care sheet information specific to the Devon Rex breed, helping new owners understand the unique needs of these cats.
It’s essential for prospective owners to research and identify reputable breeders who have a genuine passion for the breed. By choosing a responsible breeder, individuals can be confident that they are getting a healthy kitten from an ethical source.
Shelter Adoption
While purchasing from a responsible breeder is one option, another wonderful way to bring a Devon Rex into your life is through shelter adoption. Many animal shelters have purebred cats available for adoption, including Devon Rexes. Opting for shelter adoption not only provides a loving home for a cat in need but also supports ethical treatment of animals.
When adopting from a shelter or rescue organization, individuals can find adult cats as well as kittens. This allows them to provide forever homes to cats at different stages of life who may have been abandoned or surrendered due to various reasons.
Devon Rex cats are known for their affectionate nature, making them wonderful companions. They thrive on human interaction and enjoy being involved in their owner’s daily activities. Owners often find that these cats love to cuddle, offering emotional support and comfort during both happy and challenging times.
The playful demeanor of Devon Rex cats adds a lively energy to any household. Their curious nature means they will eagerly explore new toys or play with their owners, bringing joy and entertainment into the home. This interactive behavior fosters a strong bond between the cat and its owners, creating a fulfilling relationship based on shared experiences.
Devon Rex cats are also renowned for their intelligence, which enables them to learn tricks and respond to commands. This cleverness allows owners to engage in stimulating activities with their pets, such as clicker training or puzzle games, providing mental enrichment for both the cat and its human family members.
While Devon Rex cats have many endearing qualities, there are certain challenges that potential owners should consider before bringing one into their homes. These felines have high energy levels and can be quite mischievous at times. As a result, they may get themselves into trouble by knocking over items or exploring areas where they shouldn’t be.
Due to their active nature, Devon Rex cats require regular stimulation through playtime or interactive toys; otherwise, they may become bored or even develop destructive behaviors out of frustration. This aspect of ownership requires commitment from owners who must dedicate time each day to engaging with their pet through play sessions or other forms of mental stimulation.
Another factor that potential owners need to bear in mind is the grooming requirements of Devon Rex cats. While these felines have short hair that doesn’t shed excessively, they still need regular grooming sessions to keep their coat in good condition. Some individuals might not enjoy being groomed initially but can gradually acclimate if introduced properly by patient owners.
. Due to their unique genetic makeup, Devon Rex cats are prone to dental issues. Regular brushing of their teeth can help prevent periodontal disease and maintain good oral health. Providing them with dental treats or toys designed specifically for promoting dental hygiene can be beneficial.
Devon Rex cats may also require professional dental cleanings by a veterinarian as part of their special care routine. It’s essential for owners to monitor the condition of their cat’s teeth regularly and seek veterinary attention if they notice any signs of dental problems such as bad breath, inflamed gums, or difficulty eating.
Ensuring proper dental hygiene contributes significantly to the overall well-being of Devon Rex cats and helps them maintain healthy teeth and gums throughout their lives.
Maintaining good oral health in these felines is an essential aspect of providing the necessary special care they require due to their susceptibility to dental issues.
Another critical aspect of devon rex cat breed information and care sheet is weight management. These cats have a tendency to put on weight easily, so monitoring their diet and activity levels is vital for maintaining a healthy weight.
Owners should provide a balanced diet that meets the nutritional needs of Devon Rex cats while ensuring portion control. Engaging them in regular play sessions or activities that encourage exercise can help prevent obesity.
It’s important for owners to be mindful of overfeeding these cats as they may be more prone to becoming overweight compared to other breeds. Consulting with a veterinarian about an appropriate feeding plan based on the individual needs of each cat is advisable.
Devon Rex cats are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they have some genetic predispositions to certain health issues. One of the most common genetic health concerns in Devon Rex cats is hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), a condition that affects the heart muscle. This breed has a higher risk of developing HCM compared to other cat breeds. It’s important for owners to be aware of this potential issue and to schedule regular veterinary check-ups to monitor their cat’s heart health.
Another genetic predisposition seen in Devon Rex cats is patellar luxation, which is the dislocation of the kneecap. While not extremely common, it can occur in this breed due to genetics. Symptoms may include intermittent limping or difficulty extending the leg fully. If you notice any signs of discomfort or mobility issues in your Devon Rex cat, it’s crucial to seek veterinary care promptly.
These cats may also be prone to hereditary myopathy, a rare muscle disorder that affects skeletal muscles and can lead to weakness and exercise intolerance. Although not all Devon Rex cats will develop these conditions, being aware of their genetic predispositions can help owners detect early symptoms and provide appropriate care.
In addition to genetic predispositions, skin conditions are another area of concern for Devon Rex cats. Due to their unique coat texture and structure – characterized by short curly hair – they may be more susceptible to skin issues such as sebaceous adenitis. This condition involves inflammation of the sebaceous glands which results in dry skin with dandruff-like flakes.
Furthermore, because their coats lack guard hairs (the outer layer found in most cat breeds), they might experience increased sensitivity towards sunlight exposure leading them susceptible to sunburns on areas with less fur coverage such as ears and nose tips when exposed outdoors for extended periods without protection.
Moreover, due diligence should also be given towards monitoring ear hygiene since their large ears could trap moisture easily leading them vulnerable towards yeast infections especially if not kept clean regularly.
The price of a Devon Rex cat can vary depending on several factors such as the breeder, location, and the cat’s pedigree. On average, a Devon Rex kitten can cost anywhere from $800 to $1500. However, some breeders may charge more for kittens with desirable traits or show-quality cats. It’s important to consider the long-term costs of owning a Devon Rex, including food, grooming, and veterinary care. Additionally, adopting a Devon Rex from a rescue or shelter can be a more affordable option and also helps provide a home for a cat in need.
The Devon Rex is known for its playful, affectionate, and mischievous personality. They are often described as “dog-like” in their behavior, as they enjoy following their owners around and being involved in all household activities. They are also known for their intelligence and curiosity, often getting into playful antics and exploring their surroundings.
Devon Rex cats are highly social and thrive on human companionship, making them a great choice for families or individuals looking for an interactive and engaging pet. Overall, the Devon Rex is a charming and entertaining breed with a unique and endearing personality.
When comparing the Devon Rex and the Cornish Rex, there are several key differences to consider. The Devon Rex has a distinct, elfin-like appearance with large ears and a slender body, while the Cornish Rex has a more delicate, fine-boned structure with a curly coat. In terms of personality, the Devon Rex is known for being mischievous and playful, often seeking out attention from its human companions.
On the other hand, the Cornish Rex is typically more affectionate and enjoys being in close proximity to its owners. Both breeds are highly intelligent and energetic, making them great companions for those looking for an active and engaging pet. Ultimately, the choice between the two will depend on individual preferences for appearance and temperament.
Devon Rex kittens are known for their playful and affectionate nature. They are often described as having a dog-like personality, as they enjoy following their owners around and are very social. These kittens are also known for their intelligence and curiosity, often getting into mischief and exploring their surroundings.
When considering a Devon Rex kitten, it’s important to be prepared for their high energy levels and need for attention and interaction. With proper care and socialization, Devon Rex kittens can make wonderful companions for individuals and families alike.
The Devon Rex breed has a few relatives within the feline world. One of its closest relatives is the Cornish Rex, which shares a similar curly coat and slender build. Another relative is the Sphynx, known for its lack of fur and distinctive appearance. These breeds are all part of the Rex family, known for their unique and striking physical characteristics. While each breed has its own distinct traits, they share a common ancestry and are beloved by cat enthusiasts for their playful and affectionate nature.
The purpose of the Devon Rex breed is to provide companionship and entertainment to their owners. Known for their playful and affectionate nature, Devon Rex cats are often referred to as “pixie-like” due to their mischievous and energetic behavior. They are also known for their intelligence and curiosity, making them excellent companions for individuals or families looking for an interactive and engaging pet.
Additionally, their unique appearance and soft, curly coat make them a popular choice for those seeking a distinctive and charming feline companion. Overall, the purpose of the Devon Rex is to bring joy, laughter, and love into the lives of their human companions.
When it comes to allergies, both the Cornish Rex and Devon Rex are often considered hypoallergenic breeds. This is due to their unique coat types, which produce less dander compared to other cats. However, it’s important to note that no cat breed is completely hypoallergenic, and individual reactions can vary.
Some allergy sufferers may still react to the proteins found in a cat’s saliva, urine, or skin, regardless of the breed. Before bringing home a Cornish Rex or Devon Rex, it’s best to spend time with the specific cat to see how your body reacts and consult with an allergist if needed.
So, if you’re looking for a friendly, energetic, and unique cat breed, the Devon Rex might be the perfect fit for you. Just be sure to provide the necessary care and attention they require.
So, there you have it! The Devon Rex is not your average feline companion. With their playful nature, low-maintenance grooming needs, and hypoallergenic qualities, they make for a purr-fect addition to any household. Remember, understanding their unique traits and providing proper care are key to nurturing a strong bond with your Devon Rex. Whether you’re considering adoption or already have one, embracing their quirks and tending to their specific requirements will ensure a rewarding experience for both you and your furry friend.
Now, it’s time to put your newfound knowledge into action! Whether it’s creating a cozy nook for your Devon Rex to curl up in or incorporating interactive toys into their daily routine, show them some love and watch the magic unfold. Share your journey with fellow cat enthusiasts and continue learning about the wonderful world of Devon Rex cats. Meow for now!
The Devon Rex is known for its curly coat, large ears, and playful personality. Their mischievous nature and affectionate demeanor make them stand out among other cat breeds.
Due to their short, curly coat, grooming a Devon Rex is relatively easy. Regular brushing helps minimize shedding, and occasional baths can keep their coat in top condition.
While no cat breed is completely hypoallergenic, many people with allergies find that they react less to the Devon Rex due to their minimal shedding and unique coat texture.
Devon Rex cats may be prone to specific health issues such as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (a heart condition) and patellar luxation (knee dislocation). Regular veterinary check-ups are essential for maintaining their well-being.
Both adoption and responsible breeding offer opportunities to bring a loving companion into your home. Consider factors like personality traits, health history, and ethical breeding practices when making your decision.
--------------------------------------------------
