Image Credit: Jill-Schafer, Pexels
Last Updated on February 25, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Have you ever been at a friend’s house and asked them what breed their cat is, only for them to tell you they’re a Domestic Shorthair? Interestingly, the Domestic Shorthair isn’t a breed of cat at all. It’s more of a grouping of mixed-breed cats. Let’s talk about it!
Height:
8–10 inches
Weight:
6–15 pounds
Lifespan:
12–20 years
Colors:
Any
Suitable for:
Variable
Temperament:
Variable

The Domestic Shorthair is any mixed breed cat with a short-haired coat. They can be any mix of cat breeds. In fact, many of them are so mixed that it’s difficult, if not impossible, to determine what breeds they originated from. Because this isn’t a true breed of cat, you never quite know what you’re going to get with a Domestic Shorthair. The Domestic Shorthair is kind of a luck-of-the-draw type of cat since it isn’t a true breed. With purebred cats, there are breed standards for appearance and temperament, but the Domestic Shorthair doesn’t have this.

If you’re in the market for a cat, you will be able to find a Domestic Shorthair kitten or adult cat at any shelter or rescue organization. Domestic Shorthairs are usually the cats that make up feral cat colonies and the majority of the stray population, along with Domestic Longhair cats.
Many people find themselves acquiring a cat through the “cat distribution system,” which is the fun name for the tendency of cats to simply show up one day. It’s not uncommon to acquire a stray cat simply by coming across the cat or having the cat appear on your porch one day.
Although many people acquire their cats for free by finding them, if you’re seeking a cat or kitten through a rescue or shelter, you should expect to pay an adoption fee. Adoption fees are essential for supporting these organizations, and these fees often cover only a portion of the money spent on having the cat spayed or neutered and vaccinated, as well as treated for parasites and illnesses.

Since there isn’t a breed standard to work with and these cats can be any combination of breeds, there is no set temperament or behavior to expect with a Domestic Shorthair, and the intelligence levels vary between individual cats. Like with people, Domestic Shorthair cats all have their own personalities, preferences, and behaviors. When selecting a cat or kitten, spend time with multiple available cats to get a feel for their personalities. This will help you select the right cat for your home.
There are tons of Domestic Shorthair cats that make fantastic family pets, but there is the occasional cat that simply doesn’t tolerate children or visitors. Taking time and care to select the right cat for your home can provide you with a better chance of getting a cat that is appropriate for the members of your household. Keep in mind, though, that children should be taught how to properly handle the cat. No pet should be expected to put up with rough handling or unintentional abuse from children.
Many shelters and rescues will temperament test their animals before adoption, so they may be able to tell you if the cat you’re interested in does well with other animals. Some cats make exceptional companions for dogs or other cats, while others are happiest in a single-pet household.
One thing to always keep in mind when considering how your cat will get along with other pets is that cats have strong instincts to hunt. This means that most Domestic Shorthair cats are willing to chase, harm, or kill small pets, including rodents, reptiles, and birds. Some cats will even go “fishing” in an aquarium. Always ensure direct adult supervision if your cat is going to have any type of access to a small animal in your home.

All cats should be provided with a nutrient-dense, properly balanced diet. Your vet can help you choose the right food for your cat based on your cat’s weight, health status, age, and activity level. The nutrient and calorie needs vary significantly based on these factors. Whether you choose a wet or dry food diet for your cat, it’s necessary to ensure the food is nutritionally appropriate for your cat’s individual needs and meets WSAVA guidelines for cat nutrition.
💛 😺 Speak To a Vet Online From the Comfort of Your Couch!
If you need to speak with a vet but can’t get to one, head over to PangoVet. It’s an online service where you can talk to a vet online and get the personalized advice you need for your pet — all at an affordable price!
Click to Speak With a Vet
All cats need to be provided with some form of activity every day. Some cats may prefer to spend time playing by themselves, so these cats often do well with access to scratching posts, catios, and interactive toys. If you have a more social cat, though, you can expect your cat to want to spend time with you. Playtime is an excellent opportunity for building trust and companionship. Social cats will enjoy playing with toys with you, like teaser wands. Some cats even enjoy a game of fetch!
Whatever your cat likes, make sure you’re providing them with opportunities to get moving every day. Cats who don’t get exercise are likely to develop health problems and become obese.
Cats are more intelligent than they’re often given credit for, and many cats can be trained to perform tricks and play games. They can be stubborn, making it difficult to convince them to do these things. In general, the main things your cat will need to understand are how to properly use the litter box, the command “no,” and how to respond to their name.
Grooming needs can vary between individual cats, but since all Domestic Shorthair cats have short coats, you can expect minimal grooming. Cats are fastidious animals that usually do a great job of keeping themselves clean. Brushing your cat every week or so can help to remove loose hair and dander, as well as help distribute the oils on their skin and keep their skin and coat healthy.
Cats that are elderly, obese, or simply lazy may struggle to groom themselves. Even short-haired cats can develop mats in their coat if they aren’t caring for it properly. These cats need to be brushed more frequently, but mats often need to be managed by a vet or professional groomer.
When compared to other cat breeds, the Domestic Shorthair is an extremely robust and healthy cat. This is most likely due to their mixed-breed heritage and genetic makeup. However, there are a few conditions that can affect them.

In general, there are a few distinct differences between male and female Domestic Shorthair cats. Male cats tend to be larger than females, and if males stay intact for a year or more, they are likely to develop a large, muscular face that is typical of tomcats. In neutered males, their behavior usually leans more toward being affectionate and social with humans and other cats, while females are more likely to be standoffish, fearful, or extremely independent.
If you’re simply trying to determine if a cat is male or female, then you should look at their genitalia beneath their tail and rectum. Female cats have a vulva, which appears as a slit, while male cats have a penis, which appears as a rounded hairless area. The easy way to remember the differences in male and female cat genitalia is that females look like an exclamation point and males look like a colon. It can be tricky to sex cats, especially if your Domestic Shorthair kitten is small, so you may need your vet to help you determine the sex of your cat.

The Domestic Shorthair is a hearty breed that is excellent at catching rats. This made them welcome passengers on ships sailing to the Americas. Their rat-catching skills proved useful in the homes and barns of the colonizers. Rats spread disease, so these cats might have actually saved people’s lives!
Have you heard of the Household Pets category before? According to the CFA, in this category, cats are their uniqueness, pleasing appearance, unusual markings, and sweet dispositions rather than markings, color, or coat length. All cats in the Household Pets category should get the grand prize!

Domestic Shorthair cats come in all shapes and sizes, and you can find a cat to match any type of household. They’re typically hardy and versatile cats, but since they’re all a mix of various distinct cat breeds, the behaviors and appearance of these cats are highly variable. It’s best to spend time with a Domestic Shorthair cat before you adopt it in order to better understand its personality and temperament. This will help you make the right choice for your household and the cat.
See Also:
Featured Image Credit: Jill-Schafer, Pexels
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Brooke Billingsley, a former veterinary assistant for nine years, became a nurse in 2013. She lives in Arkansas with her boyfriend of five years, surrounded by her beloved pets: three dogs, two cats, five fish, and two snails. Brooke has a soft spot for special needs animals, caring for a three-legged senior dog and a widely known cat with acromegaly and cerebellar hypoplasia. She has developed a keen interest in fish keeping and is always learning how to provide the best environment for her aquatic pets. In addition to her passion for animals, Brooke enjoys gardening and maintains a vegetable garden during the summer. She stays active with yoga and received her 200-hour yoga teacher certification in 2020. Brooke also hosts a podcast that delves into folklore and myth, dedicating her spare time to research and writing. She embraces the philosophy that every day is an opportunity for learning and growth, continually working to acquire new skills and knowledge.
P.S. Biofeedback is also another therapy very effective for people–as well as our animal companions. The challenge with animals is they can't 'tell us' their symptoms & how they feel, although they do show signs, if we pay close attention. Cats in particular. have an innate tendency to pretend to be well,–often until it's too late. In the wild, they instinctively knew: 'If I get sick, I get eaten'.  Veterinarians can often determine underlying conditions, with palpation exams & lab tests, but if there's an emotional root–or connection, it won't be found there.
(@Brooke Billingsley-Thanks again for sharing these 'Little Known Facts' re: DSH's.. I just stumbled across it today, looking for something else Do you post often, in all the Links above? (I check FB occasionally–but the others, not so much)
Hi Katie, thank you very much for reading us. We do post very often and if you enjoyed Brooke Billingsley post, you can find some of her other articles in this link:
https://www.catster.com/author/brooke-b/
Also, thanks for mentioning biofeedback, it is not a very conventionally used therapy, but like other alternative therapies, it is slowly growing in popularity and becoming available for humans and pets. And yes, it is challenging with cats as they will mask their signs of disease.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
For many people, cats are pets, businesses, and sources of affection; yet, the endearing domestic Short-haired cats generate different feelings in different people. These adorable feline friends are the first choice for families looking for a flexible and entertaining addition because of their coat colors and warm dispositions.
This blog will explore the unique qualities that make these cats so endearing. We’ll explore the distinctive qualities that make domestic short-haired kittens stand out, from their clever disposition and manageable size to their eye-catching coat patterns. Furthermore, we’ll go into the background and origins of these fantastic friends and examine the factors that have influenced their growth.
At the same time, we’ll walk you through vital health and care advice, including insights into common health issues and useful grooming methods for their short coats, because responsible pet ownership is vital. Learn about the delights of adopting and rescuing domestic shorthair cats and acquire insightful advice on how to provide your new feline companion with a stimulating environment.
Furthermore, we will give you our final verdict once we have discussed all of the aforementioned factors. On the other hand, we are aware of your current thoughts! Concerning your inquiries concerning these exquisite feline friends, rest certain that we will provide the answers. We ensure you can obtain all the information you need from this site! Let’s begin by giving you a little introduction to these kitties.
Table of Contents
Because Domestic Shorthairs are a crossbreed that produces a broad range of colors and characteristics, people lovingly refer to them as the “mutts” of the cat world. They provide various cuddly cat toys with endless color and pattern variations.
Simply put, they often fall into the category of cats of medium size, much like their American Shorthair purebred relative. Domestic shorthairs have round faces, eyes, and a strong physique. These cats’ mixed heritage may cause them to be smaller or bigger, depending on their genetic makeup.
It is believed that in approximately 2000 B.C., Egypt was where cats were first domesticated. They may have been introduced to the US on the Mayflower to aid in managing the ship’s rodent infestation.
As the Pilgrims acclimatized to their new surroundings, domestic shorthair cats—prized for their diligence and skill at catching prey—were retained as pets and farm cats. From these original European-imported cats, the American Shorthair breed was created.

Even though they are referred to as “house cats,” domestic shorthair cats make wonderful family companions. Another name for them is “alley cats,” but that name usually has a bad connotation.
If we talk about the breeds of domestic short-haired cats, American and British short-hair are some famous and common cat breeds. On the other hand, some other common breeds are exotic short-hair, Siamese, and Abyssinian. Let us have a short introduction to these breeds.
The classic American tabby is an American Shorthair kitten, but this breed comes in a wide variety of colors and patterns. People prefer them for being friendly, playful, and adaptable.
These gentle giants are known for their round faces, plush coats, and calm demeanor. They are relatively low-maintenance and make great companions for families.
The Abyssinian is a sleek and athletic cat with a distinctive ticked coat, which means each hair is banded with multiple colors. They are intelligent, energetic, and love to play.
The Siamese is one of the most recognizable cat breeds, with its long, lean body, bright blue eyes, pointed ears, and mask. They are known for being vocal, chatty, and very attached to their humans.
Read More About Siamese Cat Grooming Tips
The Exotic Shorthair is a short-haired version of the Persian cat. They have the same sweet and gentle personality as the Persian, but with a much easier-to-care-for coat.
The Oriental Shorthair is a slender and elegant cat with large, almond-shaped eyes. Moreover, they are very intelligent and active, and they love to play fetch and climb.
These are just a few of the many domestic short-haired cat breeds. With so many different personalities and appearances to choose from, you’re sure to find the perfect feline friend for your home!
Similar to how their looks vary, domestic shorthair tabby cats have a wide variety of personalities. According to their owners, they may be shy and quiet, wacky and entertaining, strong and independent, clinging and sweet, courageous and adventurous, or even a combination, depending on how they’re feeling. These cats have medium-to-large, muscular, well-balanced bodies and weigh 8 to 15 pounds on average.
Breed requirements do not apply to domestic shorthaired cats, in contrast to their pedigreed counterparts. The hues and patterns of their coats are a kaleidoscope: sleek black, blazing orange, tuxedo grace, or the traditional tabby swirl. Every cat has an eye that offers a different glimpse into their soul, be it emerald, deep amber, or captivating blue.
The short-haired domestic cat is designed for adventure. They are natural explorers, skilled at maneuvering around the tightest turns and tallest shelves, thanks to their strong bodies and joyful agility. Surprisingly, though, underlying their cheeky exteriors comes tenderness. They give consolation with a sympathetic stare, nuzzle with affection, and purr with grumbling satisfaction. Taking care of a domestic shorthair cat is an experience unto itself. Every day offers a novel peculiarity and a newfound sense of wonder.
To keep your domestic short-haired cats happy and healthy, make sure to feed them a well-balanced diet, including both wet and dry cat food. Brush their fur regularly to minimize shedding and hairballs, and don’t forget to schedule yearly vet check-ups for vaccinations and preventive care.
Keep their environment engaging with toys and scratching posts to encourage physical and mental exercise. Ensure a clean litter box by scooping it daily, and always provide fresh water. Show your love through playtime and snuggles to strengthen your bond. Keep an eye on any changes in behavior and seek prompt veterinary attention when necessary
It is a fact that cats are a bit challenging to train, unlike dogs. But it does not mean that training them is impossible. Moreover, when you plan to provide them with training, focus on their daily routine rather than their playful tricks. To properly educate your domestic shorthaired cat, use positive reinforcement methods like praise and rewards for desired actions and remain consistent.
On the other hand, maintain accessibility and cleanliness when it comes to litter box training. Provide suitable posts and discourage the use of improper surfaces to curb the scratching tendency. Play interactive games with toys that resemble prey to improve your relationship with the cat. Always use kind and patient approaches, refrain from punishing undesirable behavior, and, if necessary, seek expert counsel.
In general, cats are rather carefree when it comes to grooming. And the reason for that is that they look out for themselves. The majority of cats are incredibly tidy pets. Frequently, you will witness them scrubbing more hair or debris off their bodies with their rough tongues acting as slicker brushes.
Some cats may get excessive hairballs as a result of this. Should that be the case, several specialist meals can reduce this problem by using unique fiber combinations. We strongly suggest the Blue Buffalo Wilderness Indoor Hairball and Weight Control Chicken Recipe if you require further help with hairballs.
The domestic shorthair cat breed is incredibly healthy and strong in comparison to other cat breeds. Their genetic composition and inheritance from mixed breeds are most likely to blame for this. A few situations, nevertheless, may have an impact on them.
Kidney disease, hyperthyroidism, and respiratory problems are the most dangerous of these conditions. But they aren’t exclusive to domestic shorthairs, and they are not frequently encountered. Their minor illnesses, which include skin allergies, obesity, and urinary tract diseases, might be preventable but are still rather frequent.
Before adopting these beautiful feline friends, you need to know about their health conditions, because these cats might be prone to overheating. Despite being healthy, they can have many issues that we have already discussed. Moreover, they do not need too much maintenance, and all you need to do is assist them in training methods.
Now, when you have brought them home, it is your responsibility to offer them a cozy environment. Provide them with a proper home and litter box. In return, they will not let you have a stressful moment. Remember, many cats in shelter homes are waiting for you!
Domestic shorthair cats are enough to bring happiness to your life. They are the ideal feline pals because of their distinct personality blend—they can be both reassuring companions and daring explorers. Here we talked about many breeds, fascinating history, short-haired domestic cat characteristics, and necessary maintenance. Providing healthy nutrition, an entertaining environment, and loving training are all part of your duty as a pet owner.
These robust cats give you endless affection in return for your dedication. Therefore, remember that your warmth and attention provide a home for these wonderful pets. It guarantees a lifetime of happiness for both of you if you plan to adopt a domestic shorthair.
Then this cheerful tomcat is the ideal option. They are not susceptible to any particular diseases, but they still need to visit the vet regularly for check-ups and immunizations, just like any other pet.
All of the domestic short-haired cats are friendly. If we talk about the most affectionate or friendly among them, exotic and Oriental cats with short hair stay at the top. They show their love in different ways, as they jump to your lap whenever you meet them after a while.
Though short-haired cats don’t typically have knots in their fur, a cat wash once in a while might still be beneficial! Bathing your cat can help her get rid of all the dander, extra oils, saliva, and grime, leaving her coat smelling amazing and looking sleek and lustrous.
Considering their small size, American shorthairs often have an excellent lifetime. Typically, these cats have a 15-year lifespan. They are renowned for having a long lifetime as a breed. If you decide to get a pet, be ready to give them your full attention for a very long time.
They also tend to be laid-back and non-aggressive by temperament. Because of this, longhairs and domestic shorthairs make excellent family pets. Domestics may learn to live and play nicely with other cats, dogs, and pets if they are socialized early enough.
For domestic shorthair tabby cat adoption, go no farther than your neighborhood rescue or shelter for animals! They are frequently brimming with gorgeous kittens of various types and ages that require a caring home. Should you have a particular breed in mind, think about getting in touch with a breed-specific rescue; their knowledge can help you find the ideal feline companion. You may easily search for adoptable kittens depending on your interests on online adoption portals like Petfinder and Adopt-a-Pet.
--------------------------------------------------
Animal Planet affectionately refers to Domestic shorthair cats as the mutts of the cat world because they're a mix of various breeds, resulting in a vast range of markings, colors, and personalities. With endless color and pattern combinations, they are a rainbow of cat cuddles.
enerally speaking, she falls into the medium category for height and weight, and much like her purebred, pedigreed relative, the American shorthair, the Domestic shorthair cat has a muscular build with a round face and eyes. Because she is of mixed ancestry, a Domestic may also be smaller or larger in stature, depending on her genetic makeup.
The World Cat Federation (WCF) notes that Domestics should have a balanced, solid body structure, with a head, nose, and ears that are proportionate to her body. But, as a trip to your local shelter will confirm, household cats come in many shapes and sizes.
TMuch like her color and pattern varieties, the Domestic shorthair cat personality spans a vast territory. Domestics can be playful, affectionate, quiet, vocal, docile, or calm—but are often social, points out Trupanion. She is not an aggressive cat by nature, which makes her a terrific companion for children and seniors, and, with a proper introduction period, she's a great playmate for cats, dogs and other pets.
The Domestic Shorthair is considered a working cat because of her endurance skills, such as balancing and leaping, as well as her superb hunting instinct. These characteristics are often reflected in her playful personality.
She'll need an outlet for all this energy, so provide her with a safe perch from which she can observe the great outdoors and practice her balance and agility skills. She'll want to keep an eye on the birds in the garden and on her pet parents in the living room at the same time. With her keen sense of surroundings, the Domestic also knows when it's a good time to curl up in the nearest available lap for an afternoon snooze.
As noted, the Domestic has an easy-going personality, but she does need an outlet for her cat instincts, such as hunting. Therefore, it's important to keep her occupied with creative cat toys like feather toys, jingly balls to roll around the house, and even an empty cardboard box in which to play hide-and-seek. A fun scratching post offers a place to trim her claws (scratching is a necessary and instinctual behavior for cats), and it is a great alternative to the fabric on your couch.
National Geographic shares that these hunting skills are particularly effective at night, when their light-reflecting eyes allow them to see better than much of their prey. Cats also enjoy acute hearing. Because of this inherently strong pattern of behavior, your household kitty may be quite active at night, but try to keep in mind that it's just part of her nature to wake you up at 4 a.m. to ask for a snack.
The Domestic Shorthair requires minimal care and is not predisposed to disease or other illnesses. However, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals emphasizes that they may be prone to overeating, which can lead to obesity and the constellation of health problems related to carrying extra pounds. Choose a healthy cat food that will provide her with the nutrition she needs to live a happy, energetic life.
It's important to maintain a routine grooming schedule for your furry friend. Regular trimming of claws and brushing of teeth will keep your kitty in tip-top shape, along with regular brushing with a rubber or stainless steel comb or brush. In addition to yearly check-ups with your veterinarian, establishing a maintenance routine with your kitty from an early age will help make it a stress-free process for both of you. With proper care, the Domestic Shorthair cat can live up to twenty years.
The Domestic Shorthair cat can trace its roots back to the early days of pioneer settlement in North America and were considered working cats because of their dedicated rat-catching. Healthy and rugged, it's easy to see why the Domestic became a favorite of early settlers. In exchange for room and board, the cats worked hard to keep barns and food storage facilities free from rats and other pests (and, thereby, keeping their human families free from disease). That's how the Domestic ended up on the voyage ships to North America. These kitties were amiable and inexpensive labor. All they ask for in return is a good meal, a warm bed, and some love from their humans.
Despite remaining a non-pedigreed cat, the Domestic Shorthair is accepted by the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) in the Household Pets category, where she can compete for the Grand Household Pet of the year award. Household pets are judged in one group without regard to sex, coat length, age, or color, explains the CFA. They are judged instead for their uniqueness, pleasing appearance, unusual markings, and sweet dispositions. This means that, despite not being purebred, your fur baby can have her chance in the spotlight after all.
If you are looking for a loving, friendly kitty with whom to share your life, you'll find that the Domestic Shorthair is an ideal pet, no matter her pedigree.
Are you prepared to adopt a pet?  Use these tools to make sure you are ready for the commitment.


Are you prepared to adopt a pet?  Use these tools to make sure you are ready for the commitment.


Senior Cats & Their Special Care Needs
Learn how to identify the kitten food that best aligns with her nutritional needs, keeping her active and healthy as she grows into an adult cat.
While upper respiratory infections in cats are common, they can still be concerning. Learn more about the symptoms, diagnosis & treatment options for URIs.
Do cats get lonely? What can you do to help? Learn some common signs to tell if your cat is lonely and steps you can take to try and cheer them up.
Understand how adopting an adult cat from a shelter is different than adopting a cat, and what to expect when you bring her home for the first time.
Understand the importance that kidneys play in your cat's health, and know how to spot the warning signs of kidney disease.
Learn how to make homemade kitten treats that are healthy for your pet. Enjoy this cat treat recipe from Hill's Pet to supplement a cat's healthy balanced diet.
Learn from a Veterinarian: Discover how your cat's metabolism can affect her health, including weight fluctuations, and how metabolic cat food can help.
Learn about when the best time to spay or neuter your cat is, and the health benefits that accompany the surgery.
Cat Carrier Backpacks: How to Choose the Right One
Learn the reasons why your cat nuzzles you or other pet siblings, including factors like affection, marking territory and more.
Learn about congestive heart failure in cats, including most common symptoms and complications, treatment options and whether it can be prevented.
Cats & Ingrown Nails: What You Should Look For
Just like humans, cats have pet peeves that drive them crazy. Learn common things your cat probably hates and how you can make her feel more comfortable.
Learn why your cat might show signs of being overly hungry, if there could be an underlying medical concern, and options to help them control their hunger.
Learn what cat grass is, whether it's safe for your kitty and why it may be beneficial for certain breeds, especially ones that are prone to hairballs.
Wondering how to get your cat to take a pill? This guide provides you with tactics for how to give a cat a pill!
Learn why your cat loves to be up high and how to build a DIY cat perch to keep her happy. Discover what materials you'll need and how to put it together.
Learn how meal planning, exercise and activity can help your overweight cat get to a healthy and happy weight.
The right nutrition is essential to pets living happy, healthy lives. See which foods fit your pet's unique nutrition needs here.
FOR DOGS
FOR CATS
--------------------------------------------------
One of the most popular cat breeds in the world is the Domestic Shorthair, which is also commonly referred to as DSH. Other common names include house shorthair cat, shorthair household pet, or moggies, as they’re called across the pond. But this is not a single recognized breed. Rather, a Domestic Shorthair cat is one that has mixed ancestry. In fact, some might say that these kitties are the mutts of the feline world. They’re cute, loving, and smart, even though they don’t have a pedigree to prove it.

A lack of pedigree doesn’t mean that these cats don’t boast a rich history. It is believed that the Domestic Shorthair was domesticated in ancient Egypt, around 2000 BC. But the breed did not make its way to America until the Pilgrims took some of these cats on the Mayflower for purposes of rodent control. These furry hunters helped take care of vermin issues that settlers faced on their journey to the New World, and the rest is history. No longer viewed as independent hunters, cats of all breeds, including the Domestic Shorthair, are now beloved pets who make their human companions happy with their fun antics, loyalty, and love.

These days, the Domestic Shorthair cat is one of the most common pets. And even though the breed is non-pedigreed, it is recognized by the Cat Fanciers’ Association (CFA) and World Cat Federation (WCF). They don’t all look the same (more on that below), but they have one thing in common: they make amazing pets.

One of the most popular cat breeds in the world is the Domestic Shorthair, which is also commonly referred to as DSH.

Your domesticated feline companion is still a predator at heart. That’s why cats love playing with a variety of toys that allow them to unleash their inner hunter and satisfy this natural instinct. And if you were to let your cats go outside, you shouldn’t be surprised if they end up hunting down birds or rodents. In fact, the Domestic Shorthair has a strong hunting instinct and will gladly spend a few hours every day tracking down prey, even if it has been well fed and does not need to hunt in order to eat and survive—just another good reason to keep your cat indoors.

Indoors, the only thing your kitty can hunt is a feather teaser or the occasional leg in passing. If you think that your cat is feeling a little bored or adventurous, you can work on training your feline friend to go outside with you, and you can do this in a few different ways while ensuring your pet’s safety, as well as the safety of local small wildlife. For instance, you can set up a catio, or you can train your cat to walk on a leash or sit in a stroller. That way, your outgoing and curious Domestic Shorthair cat can remain under your supervision when exploring the outdoors.

Even though most cats have certain traits that they all share, each breed has something unique to bring to the table. This breed’s personality varies widely from one kitty to the other. Again, this is the result of the fact that the DSH is actually a mixed breed with various genes that can affect not only the cat’s appearance, but also its temperament. So, while some cats may be quiet and shy, others are more outgoing, inquisitive, and talkative. Some have more energy, while others can be more laid-back. Ultimately, though, a well-socialized kitten will grow up to be a great lifelong companion in any cat loving family.

Domestic Shorthair cats are easy to find, as they are one of the most common breeds. You might encounter them as strays who are living outside or you might find them at adoption events in your community. In addition to being ultra-cute and affectionate, they can be playful, chatty, and always up for a snuggle. Others might exhibit more of an independent attitude, wanting to have their own space that they can retreat to for some alone time throughout the day. In other words, when it comes to the Domestic Shorthair’s personality, it can be hard to pin down exactly how each cat will behave and what their preferences will be. Getting to know each one as a unique individual is going to shed light on how you can create a home that’s comfortable for them and fulfills their needs.

As a pet parent, you want to take steps daily to help ensure your furry friend will remain happy and healthy. When it comes to Domestic Shorthairs, one thing to keep in mind is that these cats enjoy eating, and they are actually prone to obesity because they tend to overeat. Therefore, keeping an eye on your Domestic Shorthair cat’s weight and meal portions is important. Failing to control the amount of food your cat eats might have serious consequences, as overweight and obese cats may more prone to a variety of health issues, such as diabetes. Talk to your veterinarian about the best foods to feed your Domestic Shorthair, and discuss portion control to be sure your kitty is getting the right amount of food for overall wellness.


These cats have well-proportioned bodies and, even though they can come in a variety of sizes, they are generally medium, or average, in terms of height and weight. They can also be described as muscular, and their weight might range from around 6 pounds to 16 pounds, on average.

As the breed name implies, the Domestic Shorthair cat will have a short coat. Also, this breed is related to the Domestic Medium Hair and Domestic Longhair, so you might find similar physical attributes amongst these breeds, with the coat length helping to distinguish between them.

Basically, in the same way that their personalities can vary, the physical attributes of this beautiful breed can differ from one kitty to the next. So, you might adopt two kittens from a shelter, and they might grow up to be quite different in terms of their stature, size, the way their faces look, etc. It’s just part of what makes this breed so special!


The Domestic Shorthair comes in every color and pattern, including a variety of beautiful eye colors that include blue, green, hazel, and gold. Some may even have odd eyes, or one eye that is blue and another that is yellow, as an example. The stunning eye colors often complement the coat color of the cat, giving these feline mutts a truly gorgeous appearance.

Their colors range from white and black, to ginger, gray, and more. And patterns include tabby, patched tabby, tortie, solid, calico, and smoke. Also, because Domestic Shorthair cats come in many coat colors and patterns, you can have more than one DSH in your family but they can look totally different from one another. Some might have solid color coats, such as black, gray, white, and orange. But the Domestic Shorthair might have a coat with more than one color, such as black and white, orange and white, or gray and white. They can also showcase beautiful calico or tortoiseshell (a.k.a. tortie) coats. And, of course, there’s also the super popular tabby pattern as well.

Bottom line: the beautiful Domestic Shorthair cat breed doesn’t have a specific appearance. In addition to coming in various sizes, their coats and eye colors also showcase the fact that each kitty is one-of-a-kind.


Because the Domestic Shorthair is a cat that has a short length coat, a simple weekly brushing is a great way to maintain the health and softness of the skin and fur. These cats will thoroughly groom themselves, so you don’t need to worry about bathing them. Also, unlike longhaired breeds, you don’t need to worry as much about the fur getting matted or tangled.

However, it is still a great idea to purchase some brushes that are designed specifically for cats so you can brush your pet’s fur on a regular basis. This can help you bond with your frisky feline, as well as help her feel amazing, and it may also be helpful when it comes to preventing hairballs. Plus, if you brush out the loose fur from your kitty’s coat, it is less likely to end up all over your furniture and clothes!

Since the Domestic Shorthair cat is pretty low-maintenance, particularly when it comes to grooming needs, it can be a good choice for families of all sizes. And these features also make this an ideal cat breed for busy families who don’t have too much time to spend grooming their pets but do enjoy brushing them regularly to help remove loose hair and reduce shedding.

Photo credit: karamysh/Bigstock; AZALIA/Bigstock
Lisa Selvaggio is a freelance writer and editor, and our resident cats-pert, with certifications in pet nutrition and pet first aid. She enjoys producing content that helps people understand animals better so they can give their pets a safe and happy home.
More by Lisa Selvaggio
Domestic Medium Hair Breed HistoryLike the Domestic Longhair and the Domestic Shorthair, the Domestic Medium Hair is not a single, recognized breed. Rather, these cats are referred to as mutts because they are mixed breed felines that can have the looks and characteristics of a combination of different breeds. And because these cats are commonly found in shelters and feral colonies throughout the world today, they are one of the most popular and beloved breeds.In terms of their history, it’s believed that these cats first arrived in America with the Pilgrims, who decided to bring them along on their ships in order to help control the rodent population. Many generations of mixed breeding among these felines created the Domestic Medium Hairs that are found in cat loving homes around the world.However, as mentioned above, the thing to keep in mind is that a Domestic Medium Hair isn’t actually a specific feline breed. Basically, whether you are looking at a Domestic Shorthair, a Domestic Medium Hair, and a Domestic Longhair, you are looking at kitties from the same “breed.” And when they have kittens, these cats can showcase every length of fur, so this means that a Domestic Medium Hair could give birth to kittens that have long fur or short fur.&nbsp;&nbsp;So, what makes the Domestic Medium Hair special and what sets them apart? Well,&nbsp;the main difference between the Domestic Medium Hair, the&nbsp; Domestic Longhair, and the&nbsp; Domestic Shorthair&nbsp;is the fact that the Medium Hair has a&nbsp;– you guessed it – medium coat gene that produces its rarer, distinctive fur that’s somewhere between the length of short and long. But, because these cats are related, if you have experience with the Longhair or Shorthair, you will have a really good idea of what a Medium Hair cat will be like.Breed Traits
Yes, it&rsquo;s true &ndash; cats are cuddly! There are some cat breeds that prefer to snuggle. Here&rsquo;s our list of top 10 best cats for cuddling.
Want to have a kitty who will always be up for a cuddlefest? Well, have no fear, as there are a lot of cat breeds that are known for happily snuggling up to their human family members. Below is a list of 10 of these breeds, in no particular order, to help you on your search.
 Ragdoll
Domestic Longhair Breed History
Considered one of the most popular cats in the United States, the Domestic Longhair is also one of the most common breeds. But it is actually a combination of several breeds, so you can call these cats mutts. In other words, the Domestic Longhair is not a recognized breed.
Today&rsquo;s Domestic Longhairs are descendants of the Domestic Shorthairs that lived more than 400 years ago. Their fur grew long because of a spontaneous mutation that allowed the coat to be thicker and fuller so the cats could stay warm in cold and icy areas like Russia, Turkey, and Persia.
When the early settlers made their way to America, they brought Domestic Longhairs with them in order to help control the rodent population on their boats. Today, these super cute kitties with luxurious coats make wonderful pets, and they still have that natural instinct to hunt down prey. Also, even though they might be a bit harder to find than Domestic Shorthair cats, if you check your local animal shelters, you may discover that some Domestic Longhairs are patiently waiting for their forever home.
Considered one of the most popular cats in the United States, the Domestic Longhair is also one of the most common breeds.
Breed Traits
Breed History
Named the national cat of Australia because it is the first cat to originate from that country, the Australian Mist is difficult to find in other parts of the world, though some breeders have tried to introduce the breed to the United Kingdom. There are very few registered Australian Mists in the United States, and there aren&rsquo;t any breeders there either.
This breed was produced by Dr. Truda Straede in 1977 in order to create a cat that would be happy to live a life completely indoors. The goal was to produce a new feline breed that would be quite mellow as well, especially since there were so many feral cats attacking native wildlife in Australia.
The Australian Mist was born from an original set of 30 cats that primarily consisted of Burmese, Abyssinian, and Domestic Shorthair breeds. At first, the Australian Mist was called the Spotted Mist, but the name was later changed in 1998 in order to accommodate the variety of coat patterns that this breed could exhibit.
The Australian Mist is a breed with a really great personality that any cat owner will love.
Breed Traits
American Ringtail Cat Breed History
The American Ringtail Cat is also referred to as the Ringtail Sing-a-Ling. This is a fairly new experimental breed that started with a rescued cat named Solomon in 1998. When Susan Manley found him, he was a 2-day-old kitten who needed to be bottle-fed in order to survive. As he grew and reached the age of 4 weeks, she noticed that he had a unique tail that would curl over his back.
After having Solomon examined by a veterinarian, it was determined that there was no underlying medical issue or deformity that caused his tail to curl. The cat seemed perfectly comfortable and content, holding his tail curled over his back when relaxed.
In 1999, Susan started a breeding program whose goal was to reproduce this curled tail, which she had also noted in other feral cats throughout the northern California neighborhood where she lived.
A few breeders began working with Susan by 2005. The cats with curled tails were bred with purebreds and Domestic Shorthair cats. And in that same year, The International Cat Association, also known as TICA, gave this new breed &ldquo;Registration Only&rdquo; status.
The American Ringtail Cat (also known as the Ringtail Sing-a-Ling) is a fairly new experimental breed.
Breed Traits
(photo credit: Natureveryday / shutterstock.com)Is it because we consider cats to be so self-sufficient that we don’t stop to consider whether their diets are nutritionally balanced? I’ve always had cats and most have lived well into their very late teens. So, I figured kibble, some treats, and a splash of tinned tuna from time to time was enough to keep them happy and more importantly, healthy.Truth is, they’re not unlike humans when it comes to aging. When they’re young they need certain vitamins and minerals to grow. And with a complete and balanced diet, your pet maintains a shiny coat and healthy skin. They also experience strong bones, proper digestion and a robust immune system to ward off illness.This is why it’s so important for raising a healthy pet, to start checking food labels and update their dry and wet food options as they move from kittenhood to adulthood and ultimately senior status. By simply adapting their diet as their physical needs change, you can help stave off issues like kidney disease in seniors or obesity in adult cats that can ultimately impact mobility and quality of life. Also, as they age, they need a little extra help when it comes to maintaining gut health for optimal digestion and absorption of nutrients.This is where adding supplements can help your pet live their best life.Let’s start with what cats require daily. In a nutshell, your cat needs protein, fat, carbs, minerals, vitamins, and, of course, water. Now, most top-quality pet foods deliver a good range of the nutrients necessary to maintain a healthy life. The caveat is, that not all cats are the same. And not all require the same pre-determined level of vitamins and minerals found in today's commercial pet foods. Some need much more.For senior felines, you may want to add not only joint supplements and probiotics but also immune boosters and cognitive supplements that support brain function and memory. Those include omega-3 fatty acids, vitamins B6, B9, and B12, and ginkgo biloba.If your cat is younger but a picky eater, it may be lacking vitamins like B2 that help produce red blood cells, support the nervous system and help produce antibodies to fight infections. Or they may be shy of important nutrients like the calcium that comes from dairy products, bone meal, or organ meats your pet may not want to eat.
Stream these 10 dog-related movies and warm your heart at Christmas.
There are always so many stories about missing dogs, cats, and even birds, but one thing you don’t hear about is missing kangaroos. Well, it turns out that a pet kangaroo did get lost, and his owners are desperate to find him.
The thyroid gland plays a crucial role in a dog’s overall health, regulating metabolism, energy levels, and many bodily functions. Just like humans, dogs can experience thyroid issues, which can lead to noticeable changes in their behavior, weight, and coat condition. Understanding these conditions can help pet owners recognize the signs early and seek proper veterinary care.What Is the Thyroid and What Does It Do?The thyroid is a small gland located in a dog’s neck, responsible for producing hormones that regulate metabolism. These hormones - primarily thyroxine (T4) - help control how the body uses energy. When the thyroid isn’t functioning correctly, it can lead to either an underactive or overactive thyroid, both of which impact a dog’s overall well-being.Hypothyroidism: The Most Common Thyroid Issue in DogsHypothyroidism occurs when the thyroid gland doesn’t produce enough hormones, slowing down metabolism. This condition is more common in middle-aged and older dogs, particularly in medium to large breeds such as  Golden Retrievers,  Dobermans, and  Labrador Retrievers.Symptoms of HypothyroidismA dog with an underactive thyroid may exhibit signs such as:Unexplained weight gain despite no change in dietLethargy or low energy levels Dry, flaky skin and a dull coatHair loss, particularly on the tail or backCold intolerance (seeking warmth more than usual)Slow heart rateRecurring skin infectionsBecause these symptoms can develop gradually, many pet owners may not notice the changes right away. However, if your dog starts showing multiple signs, it’s best to consult a veterinarian for a thyroid function test.Causes and Treatment of HypothyroidismThe most common cause of hypothyroidism in dogs is an autoimmune disorder called lymphocytic thyroiditis, where the immune system mistakenly attacks the thyroid gland. Other causes include thyroid atrophy or, in rare cases, iodine deficiency.Treatment typically involves daily thyroid hormone replacement medication, which helps restore normal hormone levels. Most dogs respond well to this treatment, regaining their energy and maintaining a healthy weight with proper dosage and regular monitoring.Hyperthyroidism: A Rare but Serious ConditionHyperthyroidism, or an overactive thyroid, is much less common in dogs than hypothyroidism. It typically occurs due to a thyroid tumor that causes excess hormone production.Symptoms of HyperthyroidismDogs with hyperthyroidism may show:Rapid weight loss despite a good appetiteIncreased heart rateHyperactivity or restlessness Excessive thirst and urinationEnlarged thyroid gland (noticeable lump in the neck)Since hyperthyroidism is usually linked to tumors, treatment options may include surgery, radiation, or medication to manage hormone production. Early detection is key to improving a dog’s prognosis.When to See a VeterinarianIf your dog exhibits any signs of thyroid issues, a veterinarian can perform blood tests to measure thyroid hormone levels. Catching thyroid problems early can prevent complications and improve your dog’s quality of life.Keeping Your Dog’s Thyroid HealthyWhile some thyroid conditions are genetic or unavoidable, keeping your dog at a healthy weight, providing balanced nutrition, and scheduling regular vet checkups can help monitor and maintain their overall health. Being aware of potential thyroid issues ensures your furry friend stays happy, active, and thriving.
Although you might be familiar with the Sphynx cat, there are other hairless breeds that are just as intriguing and worth checking out if you want to add a rare hairless kitty to your household. Here are four hairless cat breeds and some of their distinctive features.
A balanced diet is essential for maintaining a dog's overall health, and omega-3 fatty acids play a crucial role in supporting skin and coat condition, joint health, heart function, and cognitive development. Two common sources of omega-3s for dogs are  fish oil and flaxseed oil. While both provide benefits, they differ significantly in composition, absorption, and effectiveness. Understanding these differences can help you make the best choice for your dog.The Role of Omega-3 Fatty Acids in Canine HealthOmega-3 fatty acids are essential fats that dogs must obtain from their diet. These fatty acids help reduce inflammation, promote heart health, improve  skin and coat quality, and support brain function. They also benefit dogs with arthritis, allergies, or chronic inflammatory conditions. The two primary omega-3 fatty acids that benefit dogs are:Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) – Helps with inflammation and supports joint and cardiovascular health.Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) – Essential for brain function and cognitive development.A key source of these essential fatty acids is  fish oil. This oil is derived from fatty fish such as salmon, sardines, and anchovies.
Mars, Incorporated recently released news about their Pets and Wellbeing Study (PAWS) research program, which will focus on studying the effects that pet dogs and cats have on people’s mental health. Keep reading to learn more about this study and what the researchers are hoping to find out.

Dandruff is often associated with human scalp issues, but we aren’t the only ones who may struggle with this annoying condition. While it may not be as noticeable as it is in humans, our feline friends can also experience these white flakes.This condition is not only a nuisance, but it can also be a sign of underlying skin problems.In this blog post, I’ll explore the possible causes, symptoms, and treatment options for dandruff in cats. Learn what you can do to help keep your cat’s coat healthy and itch-free.What is Dandruff You’re likely familiar with the white flakes and itchiness of dandruff in people, but what exactly is dandruff anyway? This common condition, in both cats and humans, occurs when something irritates the skin, causing it to flake. The presence of flaking isn’t a serious health condition on its own; however, it could indicate a more severe underlying condition. Understanding the potential causes and what other warning signs to watch out for will help you prioritize your cat’s health and well-being. Symptoms of Cat Dandruff The most obvious symptom of dandruff in your cat is obviously the presence of white or grey flakes on their bedding or throughout the coat. However, there are other symptoms that may alert you that your cat is currently dealing with a problem. Some of the more common signs include: ItchingExcessive groomingDry, inflamed, or irritated skinGreasy coat Hair loss Of course, these are very general symptoms that could point to a wide range of health problems and complications. The key to getting the relief your cat needs is to identify and address the root cause. A quick-fix solution like a bath may work short-term, but the dandruff will return if the underlying problem isn’t taken care of. Causes of Dandruff in Cats Skin flaking can be traced back to a wide range of medical problems, environmental conditions, allergies, and other situations. This can make it challenging to pinpoint what your cat is currently experiencing and treat it accordingly. There are the most common causes and what to look out for to help you start to narrow down the problem: Difficulty Self-Grooming Cats are known for being incredibly clean and well-groomed animals. They are masters of self-grooming, often caring for themselves so well that they require little or no outside help to maintain their grooming needs. However, sometimes in a cat’s life, keeping up with self-grooming can become difficult or nearly impossible. If your cat is obese, experiencing senior aches and pains, or has recently suffered an injury or ailment that impacts their ability to bend, contort, or reach areas of their body, their grooming may suffer. When their grooming isn’t kept up, the skin becomes irritated, which can result in skin flaking. Skin Allergies or Irritation Another possible cause of skin-related problems is the presence of skin allergies, infections, or other irritations. This is a broad category, but it is also the most common of the possible reasons on this list. Your cat’s skin irritation could be caused by nearly anything, but some potential causes include being in a dry environment, environmental allergies, food allergies, or sores/rashes. Signs your cat may be suffering from skin irritation include: Licking, scratching, or biting the skin Fur loss OvergroomingDull or brittle coat appearance SwellingScabs or bumps While skin irritation may not seem serious, it can be incredibly painful and uncomfortable. Even if the irritation isn’t causing flaking or dandruff, it’s best to address it and give your cat some much-needed relief. Trapped Undercoat Just like dogs, cats shed. However, for some reason, this part of cat ownership isn’t talked about nearly as frequently. As your cat sheds, the dead fur either falls out, collecting on the floor, bedding, and other surfaces in your home or becomes trapped in the coat. Regular brushing removes this dead fur. However, if you aren’t brushing to remove it, the fur can build up and cause skin irritation and other issues. Nutritional IssuesThe food your cat eats directly impacts their health and well-being, including their skin and coat condition. If your cat’s current diet isn’t providing the nutritional balance they require, you may notice changes in the quality of their fur. For example, a diet that doesn’t provide enough protein to support fur growth can cause hair loss or give their coat a dry, brittle appearance. Meanwhile, a diet that fails to provide essential fatty acids can lead to dull, dry fur and greasy skin. As your cat’s diet can impact so much more than their coat, this could be an early warning sign that you must make changes. Take a moment to reassess the food and treats your cat is given on a daily basis. Is it a nutritionally balanced diet? If something is missing, are there supplements you can add to their diet to account for this? If you’re unsure about whether your current food selection is the best option, consult your veterinarian or a pet nutritionist. Finally, water consumption is an often-overlooked element of your cat’s nutrition and diet. Cats are prone to suffering from dehydration, which can cause dry skin and skin flaking. Ensure your cat consumes enough water daily, either through drinking water or offering high moisture content in their food. External Parasites Of course, we can’t address potential skin problems without discussing the unwanted parasites your cat may encounter. Fleas, ticks, mites, and other external parasites often live on or in your cat’s skin, referred to as an infestation. Depending on the parasite, they may bite your cat to feed (like fleas and ticks) or burrow into the skin (mites/mange), causing itching, irritation, and discomfort. They may also introduce infections or illnesses. The best course of action to avoid dealing with these parasites is to ensure your cat is on a preventative. However, if they are already experiencing an infestation, you may need to take steps to eliminate the current pests. Over-the-counter products like shampoos are available, but I recommend contacting your vet to assess the severity of the problem and ensure that you’re taking the right steps to clear it up as quickly as possible. Medical Conditions Several medical conditions could cause changes to your cat’s skin and coat condition. Examples include hyperthyroidism, heart disease, kidney disease, pancreatitis, diabetes, and some forms of cancer. Of course, if your cat suffers from one of these medical conditions, you need to identify the problem and start treatment as quickly as possible. In addition to dandruff, other warning signs to watch out for include: Weight loss Loss of appetite Vomiting or diarrhea Abdominal painBad breath Fever Excessive thirstWeakness or lack of energy Coughing or difficulty breathingThe only way to rule out medical conditions like those listed above is to make an appointment with your veterinarian. Come to the appointment with a complete list of the symptoms you have observed and why you are concerned. This will help paint a better picture for your vet of what is happening, helping them reach a diagnosis. Your vet will either rule out these problems or identify the medical issue and recommend the best treatment options.
As the parent of a senior dog, the slightest change can raise a red flag. But noticing your dog turn their nose up at their food bowl is absolutely heart-wrenching. Appetite changes are a common concern for dog parents when their pups enter their golden years, and it’s completely understandable to feel anxious.A dog’s appetite is a key indicator of their health, especially as they age, and their food provides the fuel needed to keep them going. A change in appetite isn’t a simple problem with a one-size-fits-all solution. Getting your pup back on track starts by identifying and addressing the potential underlying cause (medical or non-medical).This post will discuss the most common reasons for appetite loss in dogs, share practical tips to stimulate their appetite, and help you decide when to contact your veterinarian.Medical Reasons for Appetite Loss in Dogs As our dogs enter their senior years, they experience many changes that can significantly impact their appetite and overall well-being. A slight change in appetite is often normal. Understanding these changes is important as it will help you meet their changing needs, providing them with the best care. Many medical changes happen at this stage of life, as well as an increased risk of certain diseases and illnesses. Here are some of the potential medical reasons for your dog’s loss of appetite: Dental Problems Dental health is another common concern among senior dogs that could impact your dog’s appetite. If your dog has broken teeth, cavities, sore gums, abscesses, or other dental pain, it may lead to difficulty chewing and swallowing. Pay attention to what your dog is drawn to when they do eat. If they are hesitant to eat hard food but more open to soft or wet foods, this could be a sign that they are dealing with oral discomfort and a dental checkup is needed.  The best way to prevent dental issues in your senior dog is to stay on top of the recommended regular dental cleanings and examinations. If a problem starts to develop, the veterinarian can catch and address it early, preventing it from becoming something far worse (and far more painful). Gastrointestinal Issues In their older years, many dogs will develop a “sensitive stomach,” indicating a change to their gastrointestinal system. Conditions like inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and pancreatitis can cause nausea, vomiting, and abdominal discomfort, all of which can impact their appetite. Pay careful attention to your dog’s bathroom habits. Stool consistency and frequency can tell you a lot about how their digestive system operates, with changes to their routine acting as a red flag for digestive problems. Kidney and Liver Disease As our dogs age, their organs may struggle to function at the same level they did in their younger years. Both kidney disease and liver disease are more common at this stage, often resulting in nausea, vomiting, lethargy, and appetite loss. Your dog may also experience increased thirst and urination, changes to the color of their urine, or abdominal swelling. Your veterinarian can perform the necessary testing to diagnose these conditions, including blood tests and liver function tests. Early diagnosis is essential to manage kidney or liver disease, significantly improving their quality of life. Heart Disease It may come as no shock that, like humans, a dog’s heart health may be impacted as they get older. Heart disease can reduce blood flow through the body and cause fluid buildup, decreasing their appetite. You may notice symptoms like coughing, difficulty breathing, and fatigue. If your dog shows any of these signs, a cardiac evaluation is needed to get to the bottom of the issue. Cancer It’s not a condition we like talking about, but the reality is that our aging pups face an increased risk of many types of cancer. Among other symptoms, this can cause appetite loss and weight loss. Early detection and treatment are vital to improve their prognosis and quality of life. Regular checkups and screening tests can help catch this problem early. Chronic Pain Senior dogs often experience chronic pain conditions, such as arthritis and joint pain. This can significantly impact a senior dog’s appetite by making them feel nauseous and uncomfortable, as well as making it physically difficult to eat like they normally would. Sometimes, the solution can be as simple as lifting the dog’s dish using a raised feeder to limit how much they have to stretch their neck and back down to eat. They may also need medication or physical therapy to help manage the pain and discomfort, helping to improve their comfort and, ultimately, their appetite. Infections Systemic infections can cause fevers and nausea, resulting in a loss of appetite. If your dog is lethargic, has a fever, or shows any other sign of illness, a veterinary exam can identify the source of the problem. Your vet can recommend medications to fight the infection and relieve the uncomfortable side effects. Slowing Metabolism One of the biggest changes to consider is the natural slowing of their metabolism. As our dogs age, they need fewer calories to maintain weight. They may also experience a decreased sense of smell and taste, making their food less enticing. The combination of these two often means that older dogs eat less – both because they need less to feel full and because they aren’t as tempted to eat for the joy of the meal. Canine Cognitive Dysfunction (CCD)Finally, like humans, a dog’s cognitive health can decline as they age. Canine Cognitive Dysfunction (CCD) may not appear to impact your dog’s gut health, but you’d be surprised how much it can affect their appetite. Similar to Alzheimer’s disease, CCD can cause your dog to experience confusion, disorientation, and anxiety, disrupting their routine and impacting their eating habits. They may forget when to eat or become anxious during mealtime, causing them to eat less than they would have normally.
Bigger dogs, less discipline, or maybe we're just too busy on our cell phones...
Not all heroes wear capes, and that is particularly true for this one-of-a-kind hero dog. This senior doggo is more than deserving of that title as he valiantly saved a shelter volunteer from a dangerous encounter with a deadly snake. To make everything all the more amazing is the fact that the savior doggo is blind.Moogan, the hero dog in question, is blind due to a rare medical condition. He was walking one day with his caretaker, a shelter volunteer from Utah’s Best Friends Animal Sanctuary, named Dan Fishbein. Dan was there to make sure Moogan didn’t bump into obstacles. "He&#39;s so curious, still smelling the flowers, feeling out his surroundings," he said for Newsweek. "I&#39;m always on the lookout to make sure he doesn&#39;t barrel into anything."Being so focused on the obstacles in Moogan’s path, Dan Fishbein failed to notice a major threat – a rattlesnake that lay directly in his path. But Moogan’s sharp senses at once went into action and the dog pivoted sharply and directed Dan’s attention downwards, straight to the snake he was about to step on. "Moogan turned to the right, so I looked down, and there it was," Fishbein said. "A rattlesnake, coiled right next to my foot. I gently pulled him away, thanking him. Who would have thought my blind companion would be the one to save me?"
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your cat's connection to this breed and 20 others
The domestic shorhair cat is not a recognized breed with gilded papers, but is rather a cat of mixed ancestries. Here at Basepaws, we affectionately call them Domestic Polycats - because why do purebreds get to have all the cool names? Domestic Polycats are domestic cats of (yet) unknown origins.
A Domestic Shorthair/Polycat is a remarkable result of many generations of mixed breeding between different types of cats, which is why the ancestry and origin of these kitties can be very difficult to determine. According to ancient feline DNA analysis, domestic cats are likely descended from the African wildcat (lat. Felis silvestris lybica) (Ottoni et al, 2017) found to be living several thousand years ago. However, most domestic breeds are less than just 100 years old, which is far from ancient royalty. This means that all modern domestic cats, including purebred cats (hybrids, excluded), have Domestic Polycat origins. In fact, out of all the cats in the world, most are actually mixed-breed Domestic Polycats!
When Basepaws analyzes your cat's DNA, we look for sequences your kitty has in common with the purebred cats in our database. We record the number of similarities and then use this value to determine how similar your cat's DNA is to each breed. Cats within one particular breed share more DNA with each other than with other domestic cats, but there is still a high level of diversity and variation in each breed. We mark the sequences of unclear origin as domestic polycat sequences.
Since the Domestic Shorthair breed is really comprised of many different breeds mixed together, their personalities vary widely. However, many are known to be fun-loving, people-oriented, and loyal cats that enjoy spending time playing and engaging with their favorite family members. This breed is truly a mixed bag of personality and character, so it's always an adventure getting to know your sweet Polycat kitty!
Domestic Shorthair/Polycats are genetically a very diverse group of cats. A rich gene pool positively affects their health and physique. In comparison to some domestic breeds with lower genetic diversity, Domestic Polycats are generally less affected by genetic diseases and disorders. Some conditions more commonly seen among the cats of this group are diabetes, chronic kidney disease, cancer, and hyperthyroidism. The average lifespan of a domestic polycat is ten to fifteen years. Domestic Polycats are known to enjoy their food perhaps a tad too much. These lovely companions tend to overeat, which makes them prone to obesity. Obesity will negatively affect your cat's health and can make them more susceptible to certain diseases, such as diabetes. To keep your kitty on the healthy side, make sure to feed them a high-quality diet, according to their caloric needs.
They have a kaleidescope color pallette of eyes. Domestic Polycats have vivid and captivating eyes which come in a multitude of beautiful colors as well, varying from shades of blue and green shades to brown and gold. With a little bit of meowgic and luck, your domestic polycat may even sport two differently colored eyes. If this is the case, you've got yourself a very special odd-eyed cat!
Domestic Shorthairs, aka Polycats, are domestic cats of (yet) unknown origins. While other terms that refer to mixed breed cats of unknown origins already exist, we felt that these terms largely represented initial impressions based on physical characteristics, and were then no longer pursued. We believe that this is an unfair representation of these cats’ unknown genetic portions which we’ve sequenced. These unknown sequences, or domestic polycat sequences, represent opportunities to learn more about the natural selection and evolution of cats and cat breeds in the past, as well as the genetic impacts on future health.


Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
