Like the Domestic Longhair and the Domestic Shorthair, the Domestic Medium Hair is not a single, recognized breed. Rather, these cats are referred to as mutts because they are mixed breed felines that can have the looks and characteristics of a combination of different breeds. And because these cats are commonly found in shelters and feral colonies throughout the world today, they are one of the most popular and beloved breeds.


In terms of their history, it’s believed that these cats first arrived in America with the Pilgrims, who decided to bring them along on their ships in order to help control the rodent population. Many generations of mixed breeding among these felines created the Domestic Medium Hairs that are found in cat loving homes around the world.


However, as mentioned above, the thing to keep in mind is that a Domestic Medium Hair isn’t actually a specific feline breed. Basically, whether you are looking at a Domestic Shorthair, a Domestic Medium Hair, and a Domestic Longhair, you are looking at kitties from the same “breed.” And when they have kittens, these cats can showcase every length of fur, so this means that a Domestic Medium Hair could give birth to kittens that have long fur or short fur.


So, what makes the Domestic Medium Hair special and what sets them apart? Well, the main difference between the Domestic Medium Hair, the  Domestic Longhair, and the  Domestic Shorthair is the fact that the Medium Hair has a – you guessed it – medium coat gene that produces its rarer, distinctive fur that’s somewhere between the length of short and long. But, because these cats are related, if you have experience with the Longhair or Shorthair, you will have a really good idea of what a Medium Hair cat will be like.


Again, like Domestic Longhairs and Domestic Shorthairs, Domestic Medium Hairs have a diverse gene pool and can consist of a variety of different breeds mixed into one cat. Therefore, their temperaments and personalities range widely from super affectionate to independent, and really talkative or active to very quiet, laidback, and docile.


A Range of Personalities Are Expected


Unlike other feline breeds that have particular traits that are expected to come shining through, especially as they grow from kittens to adults and become comfortable in their homes, when you meet one of these kittens, you may not be able to accurately predict what they will be like as they get older. Instead, getting to know each Domestic Medium Hair as an individual is the best way to figure out what their specific needs and preferences are.


For instance, if you adopt a Domestic Medium Hair that wants to spend a lot of time around you, you can take steps to make sure those needs are met, perhaps by playing with a variety of fun toys, such as teaser wands, or snuggling on the couch together. On the other hand, if you have a kitty who’s more comfortable being independent and doing their own thing, you’ll know that too much attention might stress your pet out. So, basically, you’ll want to treat your kitty in a way that they’ll feel loved and secure, based on their personality.


A Friendly Cat That Loves to Be a Part of the Family


On the whole, you can expect Domestic Medium Hairs to make great pets, and they will fit in well in any cat loving family. Many will get along wonderfully with children and other pets, including other cats. So, Domestic Medium Hair kitties are ideal for both small and large families, as well as singles. A feline that can be anyone’s friend!


Because Domestic Medium Hairs tend to have attractive and endearing personalities to match their equally lovely appearance, you may want to adopt more than one so they can keep each other company and give you even more attention and love. You’re sure to quickly fall for their adorable characteristics, their cuddly and inquisitive nature, and their peaceful and quiet demeanor throughout the day (except when it’s feeding time, of course!).


Provide Environmental Enrichment, Fun, and Loving Attention


As with all cat breeds, Domestic Medium Hairs will thrive in a home where they can feel safe and secure, and where they have plenty of environmental enrichment to keep them occupied. Of course, putting up cat trees and a window perch, giving your kitty a variety of toys to play with, and setting aside time to interact with or cuddle with your cat will help them feel at ease and happy.


Also, some of these kitties will absolutely love a catio, while others can be trained to travel or go for a walk on a leash or in a pet stroller. So, if you are looking for an adventure cat, this might be a good choice, but again, some will be more outgoing than others.


Domestic Medium Hair kitties tend to do well when left alone for a few hours, provided that their needs are met, but they still require plenty of attention and interaction to stay happy and healthy. Of course, if you lead a busy life and you are seldom at home, a cat might not be the pet that you should be looking for.


Always remember that, although sometimes independent and at times solitary, a Domestic Medium Hair cat will still require constant care, so make sure you can provide it before making a commitment and adopting one. Many people mistakenly think that cats can do just fine without their owner around, and they might think that cats are the perfect pet for people who work long hours. But cats are just like any other pet, requiring a healthy routine, plenty of care and attention, and a lot of love.


Training a Domestic Medium Hair: What to Anticipate


You should expect that Domestic Medium Hairs will be playful and rambunctious kittens, but they tend to mellow out with age. Properly socialized when they are young, Domestic Medium Hairs will make great lifelong companions.


When it comes to training, it is a good idea to start while your pet is young, and using positive reinforcement is the best way to teach your kitty the rules without creating an environment where they feel scared, anxious, or uncomfortable. Setting rules early on can help ensure your cat will grow up to understand what’s allowed and what isn’t allowed. And with proper socialization, your pet will also get along well with anyone they meet. So, whether you want to stop your cat from scratching the furniture or jumping on the countertop in the kitchen, just keep in mind that the right positive training will help your feline companion understand what you want.


In addition to training your Domestic Medium Hair to follow the rules around the house, you can also have a lot of fun with this kitty by training them to do tricks or maybe even communicate with speech buttons. Depending on your cat’s personality, including how ambitious they are and how willing they are to learn, you might be surprised by how much you can train them to do. So, if you’d like, you can consider buying some cat training tools, like a clicker, target stick, and treats, to start teaching your kitty and using it as a way to bond with your furry companion.




Domestic Medium Hairs come in a variety of shapes, sizes, and markings, depending on the breeds that make up their ancestry – once again, just like Domestic Shorthairs and Domestic Longhairs. You might even decide to try one of those cat DNA tests to figure out which breeds came together to make your one-of-a-kind feline.


While cats of some other feline breeds might all look really similar, particularly when it comes to their colors or markings (think: Siamese or Bengal cats), two Domestic Medium Hairs might look completely different. That’s how varied these kitties can be, and they’re all beautiful in their own unique ways! For example, some cats may be lean and long, while others may be short and stocky.


In other words, there isn’t a strict set of physical characteristics with Domestic Medium Hair cats. A lot of it comes down to simple variations. No two cats are ever exactly the same, regardless of breed, but this can especially be the case with Domestic Medium Hairs. And that’s just another one of the many wonderful traits that these cats have: they are charming, pretty, and always one-of-a-kind.


Physical Traits of a Domestic Medium Hair Cat


Despite the myriad differences between cats that are categorized as Domestic Medium Hairs, there are some features that you might be able to easily recognize. For example, generally, the females tend to be smaller than males. Also, when compared to Domestic Shorthair cats, these kitties may weigh more.


Just like their coat is medium in length, these cats also have a medium sized body. And, like other cat breeds, these kitties are muscular, so they can have a lot of energy and impress you with their acrobatics.


The overall appearance of a Domestic Medium Hair is absolutely adorable. With big round eyes that are bright and full of color, triangular ears that point straight up, and a round face that begs to be petted, these eye-catching cats might not be purebred, but they are definitely purely beautiful.


It’s All About the Fur with the Domestic Medium Hair


When you first meet a Domestic Medium Hair, you might need to take a closer look at their appearance to be sure of the breed. But, by looking for certain characteristics, you can get your answer. For example, the main feature that all Domestic Medium Hairs have in common is their luxuriously soft and beautiful double coat.


You might also notice that the hair is longer around certain parts of the body, such as the tail and the neck, but shorter in other areas, like the back. In fact, compared to other Domestic cats, the Medium Hairs have a tail that will grab your attention as well, thanks to its unique appearance due to the longer fur – it’s described as feathery or fluffy. Super cute!


In other words, the Domestic Medium Hair is a cat with a combination of longer and shorter hair all over the body. This is not something that you see with a Domestic Shorthair, who will have short fur all over their body, or a Domestic Longhair, who will have long fur from head to tail.


These Kitties Are Not All That Common


Also worth noting: these cats are not as common as their Domestic Shorthair counterparts. You might not come across them as easily as you would a Shorthair or even a Longhair, so when you do, you’ll know that it’s quite special.


While some feline breeds might only have certain coat colors or patterns, the possibilities are pretty much endless when it comes to Domestic Medium Hairs. So, if you are looking for an orange cat, a white one, a calico, or anything in between, you might not need to search long before finding a Domestic Medium Hair that matches your preferences. But, as mentioned above, bear in mind that these kitties are generally rarer than their Longhair and Shorthair counterparts.


The Domestic Medium Hair comes in a wide range of colors and patterns, as well as eye colors. Some of the most common patterns include tabby, tortie, patched tabby, solid, and smoke. This means you could have one Domestic Medium Hair cat that is solid black, while another boasts a black and white color combination and another has the stripes of a brown tabby, as just a few examples. And, in terms of eye color, some examples include green, amber, and blue.


Ultimately, the appearance of each cat will depend on their ancestry and genes. Even if you have a mother cat who is ready to give birth, you may not be able to predict what her kittens will look like, unless, perhaps, the parents are almost the same. But, even in that case, you might be surprised when the offspring comes out looking completely different from the parents. It’s just another endearing quality of these varied yet standout felines!




Domestic Medium Hair cats will do a fantastic job of keeping themselves nice and clean by regularly grooming themselves. However, they might really enjoy being brushed, so give it a try to see how it makes them feel. This could be a great way to bond with your pet, and can also help prevent hairballs.


Speaking of hairballs, because Domestic Medium Hairs feature a thick, double coat, they may require regular grooming sessions that will help prevent mats and hairballs. There are various brushes that are designed specifically for felines, and they can make grooming your pet a lot easier and quicker. Basically, with the right brushes and a consistent routine, you can help your Domestic Medium Hair look and feel fabulous by removing loose fur and keeping the skin and coat healthy, soft, and smooth.


Remember, these cats will have a coat that is longer than the average shorthair kitty, so they may require a bit more attention when it comes to grooming them. Generally, a weekly brushing is highly recommended, though owners can opt to groom their cats more often, if necessary. See what your cat needs. For example, if your Domestic Medium Hair is getting older and isn’t able to groom themselves as well as they used to, you might want to brush them more often to help them. Or, you might want to brush your cat more often simply because their luxurious coat is irresistibly soft and you’ll want to relax and unwind with your pet in this manner.


Specialized grooming salons for cats might also help you with the brushing if you need it, but this typically is not required. While an occasional visit could leave your feline friend looking elegant, graceful, and endlessly pretty, if it’s too much of a stressful experience, it’s best to stick with grooming your kitty gently at home. Of course, as it goes with all cats, some loose hair cannot be avoided, especially when you have a pet with a thicker coat, so it’s a good idea to invest in one of the many lint rollers and pet hair cleaners that can come in handy when it comes to keeping your home clean.


Photo credit: alexmak72427/Bigstock; hannadarzy/Bigstock; VadimGuzhva/Bigstock
Lisa Selvaggio is a freelance writer and editor, and our resident cats-pert, with certifications in pet nutrition and pet first aid. She enjoys producing content that helps people understand animals better so they can give their pets a safe and happy home.
More by Lisa Selvaggio
Domestic Shorthair Breed History 
One of the most popular cat breeds in the world is the Domestic Shorthair, which is also commonly referred to as DSH. Other common names include house shorthair cat, shorthair household pet, or moggies, as they&rsquo;re called across the pond. But this is not a single recognized breed. Rather, a Domestic Shorthair cat is one that has mixed ancestry. In fact, some might say that these kitties are the mutts of the feline world. They&rsquo;re cute, loving, and smart, even though they don&rsquo;t have a pedigree to prove it.
A lack of pedigree doesn&rsquo;t mean that these cats don&rsquo;t boast a rich history. It is believed that the Domestic Shorthair was domesticated in ancient Egypt, around 2000 BC. But the breed did not make its way to America until the Pilgrims took some of these cats on the Mayflower for purposes of rodent control. These furry hunters helped take care of vermin issues that settlers faced on their journey to the New World, and the rest is history. No longer viewed as independent hunters, cats of all breeds, including the Domestic Shorthair, are now beloved pets who make their human companions happy with their fun antics, loyalty, and love.
These days, the Domestic Shorthair cat is one of the most common pets. And even though the breed is non-pedigreed, it is recognized by the Cat Fanciers&rsquo; Association (CFA) and World Cat Federation (WCF). They don&rsquo;t all look the same (more on that below), but they have one thing in common: they make amazing pets.
One of the most popular cat breeds in the world is the Domestic Shorthair, which is also commonly referred to as DSH.
Breed Traits
Keeping senior dogs active is essential for their overall health and well-being. Regular exercise helps maintain a healthy weight, supports joint function, and provides mental stimulation, all of which can improve their quality of life. However, as dogs age, their energy levels, mobility, and joint health change, requiring adjustments to their exercise routine. Choosing low-impact activities tailored to their needs can keep them comfortable while reducing the risk of injury. Here’s how to keep an older dog moving safely and effectively.Walking: A Gentle Yet Effective WorkoutWalking is one of the best exercises for senior dogs, providing cardiovascular benefits, joint support, and mental enrichment. To ensure safety and comfort:Keep walks shorter and slower than in their younger years, adjusting based on their endurance.Opt for soft surfaces like grass or dirt trails instead of hard pavement to reduce joint strain.Watch for signs of fatigue, such as slowing down, heavy panting, or limping, and allow rest breaks as needed.Always  carry fresh water to keep your dog hydrated, especially in warm weather.
Dogs really do get in the most awkward of places. Curious and mischievous, they never fail to surprise us with their antics. But one doggo from Egypt broke all records. A team of U.S. paragliders, led by Marshall Mosher, flew one morning over the famous Great Pyramids at Giza, enjoying the stunning views below them. However, they did not expect to spot a stray doggo on the pyramid&#39;s very top, some 138.5 meters (454.4 ft) high."We noticed something running back and forth on top of the pyramid," Mosher said in an interview with  CNN Travel. "One person thought it was a mountain lion."Surprised at the unexpected discovery, the floating paragliders zoomed in on the doggo, trying to preserve the moment. Much to their surprise, the dog was simply chasing the birds that stood atop the Pyramid of Khafre, seemingly unaware of the great height he was at. "Maybe he was stuck up there," Mosher thought at the moment, recalling his worry. But he at once realized the situation. "If he got himself up, he can get himself down unless he found some secret portal that helped him teleport to the top of the pyramids," he said jokingly. The very next day, the paragliding team once more flew over the area, hoping to learn of the dog’s situation. They did not spot him this time. However, a fellow adventurer filmed the doggo earlier, seeing him safely descending the steps of the great pyramid. Dogs near the pyramids are a common sight. There are many strays in Giza, and they often roam near the pyramid complex. However, they don’t always climb all the way to the top. Mosher said that the number of strays was worrying, and that he is actively looking for animal shelters in Cairo that could accommodate all these dogs. Mosher also shared the video of the dog on social media, and the sight quickly became viral. Almost overnight, his Instagram posts gained millions of views. Needless to say, he was surprised with all the attention."I thought the opportunity to fly over the pyramids was decently interesting news, but no one cares about that," he said jokingly, noting that the sight of the doggo was far more unique. Some commentators on Instagram went as far as to draw a connection between the dog and the Ancient Egyptian deity, Anubis, who was often depicted as a man with a jackal’s head. Was it a simple coincidence, the roamings of a curious dog, or something much more mysterious? You be the judge.
We often associate larger brains with greater intelligence, but a recent study challenges this assumption in our canine companions. The study, published November 13 th  in the journal Biology Letters, aimed to explore whether there was any tangible connection between the physical size of a dog’s brain and their mental capabilities. The results suggest we may want to reconsider this common stereotype, at least where dogs are concerned. The idea isn’t entirely out of left field. Previous studies have found that in many mammals, a direct correlation has been found between bigger brains and higher survival odds due to their capacity to effectively process information and make better decisions. Considering this, the findings of the new study surprised many. “The key difference here is that dogs are not in a natural environment,” explained Ana Balcarcel, lead author of the new study. “They are a function of artificial selection… a very directed selection, evolution under human hands.” Researchers compared 14 behavioral traits from the Canine Behavioral Assessment and Research Questionnaire and the relative brain-to-skull size of 1682 dog skulls covering 172 breeds housed at the Natural History Museum Bern in Switzerland. They found several patterns, but these patterns went against our previous understanding. Dog breeds known to be most trainable and intelligent, like working dogs bred to perform complex skills, were found to have the smallest relative brain size. This included dog breeds most likely to excel in human-assistance roles, like guide dogs, police dogs, and those involved with search-and-rescue. Meanwhile, toy dog breeds bred mainly to serve as companions, like Chihuahuas, Pomeranians, and Yorkshire Terriers, were found to have larger relative brain sizes. Statistically, these breeds are also more likely to exhibit higher levels of fear, aggression, and separation anxiety. The most interesting thing about this for many researchers is that we, as a society, didn’t just choose breeds that were best suited for these working roles (which happened to have smaller brain ratios). Instead, over generations, they have been bred to be trainable, independent, and better at problem-solving. “We can say that we have really altered the brains – not just the body sizes and the proportions of different dogs, but it looks like we have also changed their brains in a significant way,” stated Balcarcel. Interestingly enough, the difference in brain size may also reflect our impact on the dogs through domestication. The study revealed that the brain of the average domesticated dog is approximately 20% smaller than that of a wild gray wolf relative to body size. However, domesticated dogs must understand and operate with higher social skills than wild dogs. Consider the unique skills your dog demonstrates daily, regardless of their breed. Domesticated dogs are expected to learn how to interpret our gaze, body language, and many verbal commands just to live as a family dog. Moving forward, the research team plans to dig further into the comparison between various dog breeds physically and their function by analyzing other physical differences, like the shape of specific parts of the brain. We’re excited to follow along and learn more about how this information could influence dog training and behavior as we know it! Join the PetGuide community. Get the latest pet news and product recommendations by subscribing to our newsletter  here.

In yet another amazing story of a cat being reunited with their owners, a kitty from California made it home by traveling hundreds of miles after getting lost in Wyoming.
Being a pet owner is a wonderful and rewarding experience that helps you find joy in the little things and enjoy true companionship. However, it also comes with responsibilities — not just toward your furry friends but also toward the environment. Pets and their owners can have a considerable ecological footprint, from food production to waste management. Fortunately, with a few thoughtful changes in the coming year, you can reduce your impact while ensuring your pet thrives. Here’s how:#1 Choose Sustainable Pet FoodYour pet’s diet is one of the most significant contributors to their environmental footprint. To reduce this impact, opt for pet food brands that prioritize sustainability by using responsibly sourced ingredients and eco-friendly packaging.Consider foods made with alternative proteins like insects, which are highly nutritious but require far fewer resources than traditional meat production. Plant-based options are also becoming more available for certain pets, particularly dogs. When purchasing, look for certifications such as MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) for seafood or Fair Trade for ingredients. Buying in bulk can also help reduce packaging waste and transportation emissions.For a more personalized approach, consider preparing  homemade meals for your pet using locally sourced ingredients. Consult your veterinarian to ensure these meals meet your pet’s nutritional needs.#2 Opt for Eco-Friendly Toys and AccessoriesPets love toys, but many commercial options are made from non-recyclable plastics and low-quality materials that quickly end up in landfills. Instead, choose toys and accessories made from sustainable materials like hemp, recycled fabrics, or bamboo. Many companies now offer recyclable or  biodegradable toys that are as durable as conventional ones.
The holiday season is just around the corner, a time spent laughing and celebrating with the people we love most. While we're busy decorating our homes, baking holiday treats, and preparing for friends and family to arrive, it's important to remember that our furry friends are also part of the celebration. After all, nothing will put a damper on the festivities quite like a trip to the emergency vet! Luckily, there are steps you can take to create a holiday environment where you and your pets can both enjoy this joyous season to the fullest! In this guide, I will share some of the most common holiday hazards that can pose a threat to pets, such as toxic foods, dangerous decorations, and the added stress of social gatherings. Plus, I'll offer practical advice on pet-proofing your home, managing guest interactions, and creating a calming space for your pet. Common Holiday HazardsAs we deck the halls and prepare our mouth-watering festive feasts, we need to be mindful of the potential dangers facing our furry friends. From bright, tempting decorations to toxic holiday treats, even the most well-intentioned and responsible pet parents may face a holiday emergency.To help you avoid an unnecessary holiday disaster, here are a few common holiday hazards to be aware of:TinselA common holiday decoration, the bright shine and sparkle of tinsel screams Christmas. However, most pet parents aren’t aware of the risks of ingesting this festive garland. During the holiday season, tinsel is a common cause of bowel and intestinal obstructions, resulting in expensive vet bills, surgery, and even life-threatening emergencies.Holiday OrnamentsTinsel isn’t the only decoration posing a risk during this festive season. While many may look at a Christmas tree and see a collection of beautiful decorations, some pets see chew toys. Chewing and ingesting holiday ornaments can lead to choking, obstructions, or even death.A type of holiday ornament often seen on the tree of pet parents, salt dough ornaments are a hidden risk that you need to be aware of. The amount of salt in these ornaments can lead to dangerously high sodium levels in their blood, causing thirst, tremors, seizures, coma, or worse. If you choose to use this approach to make a cute paw print ornament to hang on the tree, make sure it is up and out of reach of your furry friends.Christmas LightsNot only do the glass bulbs themselves pose a risk to curious pets, but the electrical cords may also be tempting chew toys. Of course, chewing on any electrical cord can quickly turn into a life-threatening situation.When hanging Christmas lights in your home, tuck the cords away from your pet’s reach. If you have a dog or cat who tends to chew on things they shouldn’t, you may need to take extra precautions to keep them away from these risks. An exercise pen is a great way to set up a barrier around a Christmas tree, allowing you to enjoy the glow of the blinking lights while avoiding an emergency.Poinsettias and Other Holiday Plants While many pet parents are familiar with the toxic risk of poinsettias if a dog or cat were to ingest them, they aren’t the only toxic plants commonly associated with the holidays. Some other plants you should be aware of include:  Holly MistletoeYew Lilies (Day, Tiger, Easter, Asiatic, Japanese Show)AmaryllisAnother plant-related risk to watch out for is the water under your Christmas tree. While keeping your tree watered is essential to keep it from drying out (creating a fire hazard), that same life-giving hydration is often a toxic mix. Christmas tree water may contain bacteria, mold, or pesticides. Not quite the refreshing drink your pet is looking for! Festive Snacks The holidays are often celebrated with good food – the center point of every festive gathering. But many of those holiday foods are also toxic to your pet(s). As you’re planning your holiday spread, watch out for these common toxic foods/ingredients: Chocolate Xylitol (artificial sweetener) Onions and garlic (in large doses)Macadamia nuts And more… This doesn’t mean you have to change your menu, but you do need to be careful when serving these dishes to your friends. Keep the serving dishes up and out of your pet’s reach and warn any guests about setting their plates down in your pet’s reach. In addition to the toxic risk these items may cause, there are other potential concerns surrounding holiday foods. High-fat foods like turkey can lead to pancreatitis. Meanwhile, foods with higher sugar content may trigger or worsen cases of diabetes and obesity. Alcohol Another common part of our festivities, most parties involve sharing a festive drink. From a glass of wine to your favorite eggnog (with a little bit of rum), there is nothing wrong with enjoying a little alcohol during the holidays – unless, of course, the one drinking it is your pet.  Alcohol toxicity is surprisingly common among dogs or cats of any age. Why? These drinks often smell and even taste enticing, encouraging our pets to drink more than their fair share. But their small size means that they can’t handle nearly as much alcohol without trouble as we do. It doesn’t take much to make your pet feel sick or to create potential dangerous or even fatal side effects. Stress & Anxiety from Gatherings Your dog’s stress levels may not be considered a life-threatening hazard, but it can create an unpleasant or potentially dangerous situation if it isn’t properly addressed. In fact, stress & anxiety can cause health problems for your pet. When you take a pet who is used to their home environment being a calm, safe, and secure space and suddenly introduce a bunch of unknown people, excitement, noise, and activity, it may be too much for your pet. This doesn’t mean you can’t throw a holiday party – but you should take steps to manage the situation and set your pet up for success. This includes minimizing stress triggers, where possible.
Have you recently noticed your cat, usually a bottomless pit, suddenly turning up their nose at their food dish? Whether it’s a sudden disinterest in their usual meal or a complete aversion to food, a change in your cat’s appetite could be a serious cause for concern.A decrease in appetite may be the result of several factors, ranging from a minor inconvenience or change in taste (they can grow tired of their food, too) to a serious medical condition. The first step to fixing the situation is to figure out the root cause.This post will look at some of the most common reasons a cat may stop eating, offer tips and tricks to encourage them to eat again, and help you decide when you should seek professional help from your veterinarian. Remember, if this is a sign of an underlying illness, early intervention is key!Let’s help your kitty get their appetite back!Why is My Cat Not Eating?Understanding the cause of your cat’s loss of appetite is the first step in determining the best course of action, whether it can be handled at home or calls for a trip to the vet. While occasional picky eating is normal for some cats (my girl Pippen goes through phases), an ongoing, persistent disinterest in their food may be a red flag for a more serious underlying medical issue.Here are a few of the more common reasons a cat may have stopped eating:Illness or DiseaseLike with people, several illnesses, diseases, and medical conditions could significantly impact your cat’s appetite. After all, if you’re not feeling well, eating can often make that feeling worse in the short term.Some possible explanations for the change include:Nausea is a common side effect of many cat-related illnesses.Upper respiratory infections can cause nasal congestion and pressure, making eating uncomfortable. Dental problems like tooth decay, cavities, or abscesses can lead to pain and difficulty chewing.Chronic illnesses like kidney disease, hyperthyroidism, and diabetes may disrupt your cat’s normal body functions, impacting their appetite.PainAnother potential medical-related reason for your cat not wanting to eat - Pain (whether acute or chronic) can leave your best friend feeling “off.” Injuries, arthritis, and other painful conditions can make movement uncomfortable, including chewing or even bending down to reach into their food dish. It can also cause a decrease in their overall activity level, meaning they don’t need to eat as much to keep up with the calories they’re burning. Cats are masters at hiding pain. We, as cat parents, need to be on the look out for any signs of discomfort, such as reluctance to jump, difficulty grooming, or changes in the normal behavior.Stress and AnxietyCats are very sensitive creatures, and even the smallest changes in their environment can cause stress and anxiety. Introducing a new pet, the arrival of a new baby, moving to a new home, or even loud noises like fireworks or home renovations can disrupt their sense of security and lead to a loss of appetite.In addition to appetite changes, signs of trouble to look out for include hiding, excessive grooming, uncharacteristic aggression, or changes in their litter box habits (aka “accidents”).How to Encourage Your Cat to Eat (Home Remedies)So, you’ve noticed your cat isn’t eating or eating less than usual. Now what? What can you do to support your cat’s appetite?While a veterinary consultation should also be your first step, there are several things you can do at home while you wait for your scheduled appointment. Once you’ve consulted with your vet, they can guide you on the best course of action, including any at-home maintenance care. Here are some strategies to help support your cat’s well-being in addition to their professional veterinary care:Food TemptationMaking your cat’s food more appealing can sometimes do the trick, enticing them to push past whatever is causing them to resist eating. Warming their food slightly can sometimes do the trick. You can also try experimenting with different textures. Some cats prefer wet food, while others enjoy a dry kibble or pate.Offering new or tempting protein sources, like cooked chicken, flaked tuna (in water, not oil), or salmon, can help to pique their interest.If your cat’s food isn’t tempting enough, consider using a food topper to add interest to their meal. There are many options, ranging from hydration options like bone broth to more traditional food toppers like freeze-dried proteins. But be sure to check with your vet before making any changes to your cat’s diet.Try Fresh Human FoodsMany cats will turn their nose up at cat food only to be tempted by human foods. Of course, this means familiarizing yourself with the foods that can be given to your cat safely.Some options you may want to consider to spark your cat’s appetite include:SardinesTuna or salmon (fresh or canned in water, not oil)BeefChicken or turkeyEggs, especially egg whitesPumpkin pureeBroccoliGreen beansGreen peasCarrotsSpinachAny cooked foods should be unseasoned. Most common seasoning options are unsafe or even toxic for our cats.Pay careful attention if your cat is trying to eat things they shouldn’t, like your house plants. While it’s great that they are eating something, their chosen snack could prove to be toxic and lead to other serious problems.Create a Comfortable Eating EnvironmentTry reassessing not only what your cat is eating but where they are eating. Are there elements of your cat’s eating environment that are significantly impacting their appetite? Make sure your cat’s dish is placed in a quiet location where they can eat undisturbed, away from high-traffic areas of your home or the competition of other pets.What about your cat’s food dish? Consider experimenting with different food dishes, like a more shallow dish to prevent whisker fatigue, or a different material, like ceramic instead of stainless steel.How often are you cleaning your cat’s food dish? An unclean dish could turn your cat off from eating entirely. Keep their dishes clean and placed at a comfortable height for their size.Reduce StressHigh stress levels can be a major appetite killer. Try to minimize any potential causes of stress or anxiety in your cat’s environment. Pay attention to any triggers that could upset your cat, like overwhelming smells or sounds.You can also reduce your cat’s stress levels by providing mental stimulation. Ensure they have plenty of environmental enrichment in your home, such as scratch posts, cat trees, cat shelves, and interactive toys. Additionally, you may wish to consider calming aids, like Feliway diffusers, but consult with your veterinarian first.
Environmental enrichment is important for all pets, from dogs and cats to rodents and birds. When it comes to your feathered companions, you can keep them happy, entertained, healthy, and stress-free by providing a safe environment, toys, yummy foods, and physical and mental stimulation. To help you get started, here are a few tips you can implement to make your bird’s home even better.
As loving dog parents, we want to ensure our pups are getting the best of the best – including the best toys, the most comfortable beds, and, of course, the best nutrition. But with so many dog food brands on the market, deciding which ones truly deliver on their promises can be overwhelming.A recent study has shed light on this very issue. By analyzing a massive amount of market feedback and online customer reviews, it highlights which brands are earning – and losing – the trust of dog parents.  Reviews.ai, a consumer data analysis firm, recently published their Dry Dog Food Report 2025 – Best Seller Performance. It analyzed over 135,000 online customer reviews from 2024, covering 26 pet food brands and 89 specific dry dog food products. The report painted a clear picture of what brands are meeting the expectations of dog lovers across the country and which brands are falling short. The report sorted the pet food brands into four main performance groups: LeadersBrands with high customer satisfaction and strong loyalty. These brands consistently received positive reviews, revealing that dog parents were satisfied not only by the products but also by the brands responsible for them. Examples include:  Purina, Hill’s, Iams, Nutro, Royal Canin, and Rachel Ray Nutrish.NicheThese are smaller companies that have a strong customer sentiment. Brands in this group cater to specific needs or preferences and, in doing so, have built a strong, loyal customer base. Examples include: Merrick, Pedigree, Health Extension, and Natural Balance.At RiskDespite having high visibility, brands in this group were found to have declining customer trust. These brands face challenges related to customer satisfaction and loyalty, which may suggest potential issues with their products or brand practices. Examples include; Blue Buffalo, Taste of the Wild, Orijen, and Open Farm.LaggardsBrands in this group were found to have low engagement and poor consumer sentiment. They are experiencing significant difficulties in building and maintaining customer trust and satisfaction. Examples include: Signature, Diamond Naturals, Cesar, Canidae, and Wagg.So, what do these rankings really mean? What decides which group each pet food brand is sorted into? Researchers combed through a wealth of market research and customer review data, focusing on the feedback provided on various online retailer websites. The rankings were based solely on the feedback offered by dog parents. In addition to sorting the brands into four categories, the report also revealed that nearly all reviews could be sorted into six primary areas of concern: Dog Preference and Satisfaction: Many pet parents shared frustration with dogs rejecting food due to taste, smell, or texture. Dog Health and Wellness: Pet Parents showed a higher level of loyalty to brands that had strong veterinarian endorsements and clear nutritional health benefits.Brand and Trust: Pet parents are increasingly skeptical and desire brand transparency. Frequent formula or ingredient changes and the use of vague marketing terms can lead to a loss of trust. Product and Experience: Some of the most common complaints seen in reviews included packaging issues, formula changes without notice, and inconsistent food quality. Price and Purchase: Looking behind the “premium” label, pet parents are carefully weighing price vs quality to find the best option for their pets while keeping to their budgets. Service and Fulfillment: When making a purchase, pet parents want to receive their products in a timely fashion. Their opinions can be influenced by delays resulting from slow delivery times and stock shortages. They may also drop due to poor customer support. This research highlights the importance of doing your own research and due diligence when choosing the best food for your best friend. Most importantly, the best dog food is the one that meets your pup’s individual needs (and preferences). By staying informed and paying attention to changes in the pet food industry as well as to your dog’s response to their food, you can make the best decision for their health and happiness. Join the PetGuide community. Get the latest pet news and product recommendations by subscribing to our newsletter  here.
A delightful crossbreed of charming  Labrador Retrievers and elegant  Poodles, Labradoodles combine the best traits of both breeds: intelligence, a friendly nature, hypoallergenic coats, and a boundless love for fun. These qualities make Labradoodles beloved companions, but their high energy levels and playful demeanor mean they need plenty of exercise to thrive. Here’s what every would-be Labradoodle owner should know about meeting their furry friend’s activity needs before adopting one.How Much Exercise Does a Labradoodle Need?Labradoodles are active dogs that require daily physical and mental stimulation to stay happy and healthy. On average, adult Labradoodles benefit from 60 to 90 minutes of exercise per day, divided between activities that challenge both their bodies and minds.Physical Exercise: Activities like running, playing fetch, or  agility courses are excellent ways to burn off their extra energy.Mental Stimulation: Puzzle toys, treat-dispensing gadgets, and obedience training sessions help keep their sharp minds engaged.
Have you ever listened to our dog cough and wondered if it’s just a little tickle or a sign of something far more serious? As loving dog parents, we want the best for our pups. This means we’re constantly on the lookout for trouble, which can sometimes make us a little overly cautious. But when it comes to understanding the early signs of heart disease in dogs, that diligence could save a life.Early detection allows you and your veterinarian to address the problem sooner, potentially slowing the progression of the disease and giving your best friend many more happy, healthy years by your side.I understand that the thought of heart disease can be daunting, but knowledge is power! This post will guide you through the information you need to be your dog’s best advocate, including the most common types of heart conditions, early warning signs to watch out for, how heart disease is diagnosed and treated, and most importantly, the proactive steps you can take to support your dog’s heart health and prevent a problem before it starts. Common Types of Canine Heart Disease Just like humans, dogs can develop different heart conditions and heart-related illnesses, each with unique challenges and care needs. This ranges from congenital defects that were present at birth to acquired diseases that develop over time (although possibly preventable), negatively impacting the heart’s ability to function correctly. Here are some of the most common types of heart disease your dog may experience: Mitral Valve Disease (MVD)One of the most common heart-related illnesses that dogs may experience is Mitral Valve Disease (MVD), a degenerative condition that affects the heart valve that separates the left atrium and left ventricle (aka the mitral valve). This valve’s job is to prevent blood from flowing backward, keeping blood flow in the body moving as it should. As the valve deteriorates, it may start to leak, allowing blood to flow back into the atrium. Some small breed dogs are at a higher risk of developing MVD, especially as they get older. This includes Cavalier King Charles Spaniels, Dachshunds, and Chihuahuas. Dilated Cardiomyopathy (DCM)Another significant heart condition in dogs that has been gaining attention lately is Dilated Cardiomyopathy (DCM). This occurs when the heart muscle weakens and becomes enlarged, making it difficult for the heart to pump blood effectively. It has been in the news a lot in recent years as researchers evaluate the potential links between DCM and your dog’s diet. While it was once believed that grain-free diets increased the risk, it was later found that there was no clear link between the two. In fact, many grain-free diets were found to have no link to heart problems at all. New research now focuses less on the absence of grains and more on the ingredients used to replace them. This condition is more commonly seen in large and giant breed dogs, such as Doberman Pinschers, Boxers, and Irish Wolfhounds. Congenital Heart DefectsPresent from birth, congenital heart defects can range from minor to life-threatening. The term is used to describe abnormalities in the heart’s structure, such as holes in the heart or abnormal blood vessel connections. Early detection is crucial for these conditions as some can be corrected with surgery or other interventions, while others require ongoing management. Heartworm Disease Unlike the other conditions on the list, heartworm disease isn’t caused by issues with the heart itself. This parasitic infection occurs when worms live in the heart and lungs, dramatically impacting their ability to function effectively. Heartworm disease is transmitted by mosquitoes. While it would be nearly impossible to keep your dog mosquito-free throughout their entire life, there are preventative medications that will protect them against heartworms. This is crucial for your dog’s health and well-being, as the worms can cause severe and life-threatening damage to the heart, lungs, and blood vessels, resulting in heart failure and death. Early Warnings Signs: What to Look or As I mentioned, recognizing the early signs of heart disease is key for early diagnosis and timely intervention. The sooner your dog receives the necessary veterinary care, the better their prognosis in most cases. Unfortunately, many of these warning signs are subtle and easily overlooked.Changes in Breathing One of the most common early warning signs is a change in your dog’s breathing patterns. This could include an increased respiratory rate (tachypnea) or difficulty breathing (dyspnea). To measure your dog’s respiratory rate, count the breaths they take in one minute while resting. A normal resting respiratory rate for a healthy adult dog is between 10 and 30 breaths per minute. If your dog’s rate is consistently faster than this, especially at rest, it’s a sign that something is medically wrong, and you need to contact your veterinarian. Difficulty breathing is always a red flag. This can manifest as panting excessively, especially when resting, flared nostrils, or abdominal breathing (where the abdomen moves significantly with every breath). Even if your dog’s difficulty breathing isn’t caused by heart-related issues, it is a medical emergency. A persistent cough, especially one that sounds wet or hacking, can also be a sign of trouble. A cardiac cough is often worse at night or after any physical activity, as fluid builds up in the lungs, making the issue worse. Of course, not all coughs are connected to heart issues. But if your dog’s cough is persistent and doesn’t go away, you should make an appointment to get to the root of the problem. Becoming Easily Tired or Lethargic Have you recently noticed your dog is becoming tired much easier after physical activity? Are they showing less enthusiasm for activities or play that they once enjoyed? As the heart struggles to keep up with the demands of your dog’s body, failing to pump oxygenated blood efficiently, it can decrease their stamina. They may be reluctant to play or even go for walks. In the most severe cases, a dog may faint or collapse after minimal activity.
We often hear about musicians and artists making an impact through financial donations or participating in charitable events. But a new heartwarming story of a dog’s search for his forever home has been capturing the hearts of animal lovers everywhere. Graham Cracker was found by a young girl in the woods of Vilonia, Arkansas, with his mother and littermates. She had been sneaking food to the stray mama dog, trying to do what she could to help. After her mother found out about the dogs, she contacted a rescue team to find them and get the pups to safety. This was when their journey led the pups to The Bond Between, a non-profit rescue organization in Minnesota. But for Graham Cracker, this was just the beginning! On October 17th, an announcement on Instagram revealed that Graham Cracker had found a loving but very unique foster parent. After seeing the young pup’s adorable photos, Grammy-winner Pink invited the pup, who appears to be a Labrador Retriever mix, to join her and her family on tour. She went on to announce the decision to her fans during her St. Paul, MN show:“We rescued a puppy from this awesome organization called The Bond Between. His name is Graham Cracker. He’s currently peeing all over my dressing room,” Pink stated while seated at her piano on stage. “We’re actually – I haven’t told anybody this yet, but we’re gonna foster him for the tour, and he’s gonna go on this big carnival adventure with us.”
Dog left tied to fence during Florida evacuation, living his best life.
You might enjoy decking the halls with boughs of holly, but would that be a smart thing to do if you happen to share your home with a dog? The glossy green leaves and bright red berries are a Christmas staple, but unfortunately, holly is not safe for dogs. Holly is considered toxic to dogs, and taking precautions is essential to keep your furry companion safe. Here’s what every dog owner should know about this iconic holiday plant.Why Is Holly Toxic to Dogs?Holly contains saponins — a group of chemicals that are mildly to moderately toxic to dogs. Both the leaves and berries of the holly plant pose a risk if ingested. Additionally, holly berries contain other harmful substances, such as methylxanthines and cyanogens, which can worsen symptoms of poisoning. To complicate matters, holly leaves are spiky, and their sharp edges can irritate a dog’s mouth, throat, and stomach.Symptoms of Holly Poisoning in DogsIf your dog ingests holly, the symptoms can vary depending on their size, health, and how much was consumed. Common signs to watch for include:Vomiting: Your dog may vomit shortly after eating holly, expelling any berries or leaves they ingested.Drooling: Irritation caused by holly’s toxins or prickly leaves can lead to excessive drooling.Diarrhea: Digestive upset is a common response to holly poisoning.Lethargy: A poisoned dog might appear unusually tired or sluggish.Mouth Irritation: Cuts or bleeding in your dog’s mouth can indicate they’ve chewed holly leaves.Loss of Appetite: Gastrointestinal discomfort can discourage your dog from eating.What to Do If Your Dog Eats HollyIf your dog consumes holly, staying calm is crucial. Panic can make it harder to handle the situation effectively. Follow these steps:Remove the Holly: Safely dispose of any remaining holly or place it well out of reach. If your dog is still chewing the plant, gently remove it from their mouth.Assess Symptoms: Observe your dog closely for any of the symptoms mentioned above.Contact Your Vet: Even if symptoms seem mild, consult your veterinarian or call a pet poison control hotline. Provide details about how much holly was consumed, the type of plant, and any symptoms your dog is showing. Do not induce vomiting unless explicitly directed by a vet, as this can sometimes cause additional harm.Encourage Hydration: Offer your dog plenty of fresh water to help flush toxins from their system.Prevention is KeyThe best way to protect your dog from holly poisoning is to avoid using real holly in your holiday decorations. Consider these alternatives and precautions:Opt for Artificial Holly: High-quality  artificial holly looks just as festive and is completely pet-safe. Plus, it can be reused year after year.
Caring for your feline friend comes with many responsibilities, and maintaining a clean litter box is among the most crucial aspects of their hygiene. A clean litter box ensures your cat stays happy and healthy while keeping your home fresh and odor-free. However, many cat owners are unsure how often to change their pet's litter. The answer depends on several factors, including the  type of litter you use, the number of cats in your home, and your cat's individual preferences. Here’s a comprehensive guide to help you manage your cat’s litter box effectively.Why Litter Box Hygiene MattersCats are renowned for their cleanliness, and a dirty litter box can cause significant distress. In some cases, it can even lead to behavioral problems, such as litter box avoidance. This can result in inappropriate elimination around your home, creating additional challenges. Moreover, a poorly maintained litter box can become a breeding ground for bacteria and ammonia buildup, which can be harmful to both your cat and your household.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Surapong, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 25, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead        

















 



                            Characteristics                        



                            Temperament                        



                            Intelligence                        



                            Food & Diet                        



                            Exercise                        



                            Health                        



                            Training                        



                            Grooming                        



                            Fun Facts                        




The combination of several different cat breeds throughout history has resulted in a very lovely hybrid—the Domestic Medium Hair cat. Affectionately known as “mutts” due to their mixed lineage, this breed is commonly adopted by cat lovers.
Appearance-wise, the Domestic Medium Hair is around 9–14 inches tall and weighs between 11–22 pounds. They have medium-length double coats and come in a variety of colors and patterns—black, white, ginger, gray, tabby, tortoiseshell, smoke, unicolored, tricolored, multicolored, tuxedo, and much more. Their fur tends to be shorter on the back and fluffier around the face and the tail.
Breed Overview          Height:9–14 inches    Weight:11–22 pounds   Lifespan:15–18 years          Colors:A wide range of colors and patterns possible     Suitable for:Families with children and other pets, first-time cat owners, pretty much any loving cat parent         Temperament:Ranges from independent and reserved to outgoing and sociable
Body types in Domestic Medium Hairs are pretty varied, too. While some are muscular and well-built, others are lithe and slender. In short, a very mixed gene pool is what makes Domestic Medium Hair cats so diverse and special—it’s hard to find two that look exactly the same.
 Domestic Medium Hair Cat CharacteristicsEnergy+ A high-energy cat needs a lot of physical and mental stimulation to keep healthy and happy, while a low-energy cat needs minimal physical activity, but still needs mental stimulation. When choosing a cat, It’s important to ensure their energy levels match your lifestyle. Trainability+ Cats that are easy-to-train are more willing and skilled at quickly learning prompts and actions with minimal training. Harder-to-train cats are usually more stubborn or aloof and require a bit more patience and practice. Health+ Certain cat breeds are more prone to various genetic health problems, and some more than others. This doesn’t mean that every cat in those breeds will have these issues, but they do have an increased risk, so it’s important to understand and prepare for any additional needs they may require. Lifespan+ Due to their size or potential genetic health issues of a specific breed, some cats have shorter lifespans than others. Proper nutrition, exercise, mental stimulation, and hygiene also play an important role in your cat’s lifespan and quality of life. Sociability+ Some cat breeds are more social than others, both towards humans and other cats and animals. Cats that are more social have a tendency to rub up on strangers for scratches or jump on laps for cuddles, while cats that are less social shy away, hide, are more cautious, and even potentially aggressive. No matter the breed or gender, it’s important to socialize your cat and expose them to many different situations. 

What’s the Price of Domestic Medium Hair Cats?




Image Credit: congerdesign, Pixabay
It’s not hard to find Medium Hair cats to adopt. There are many in shelters all around the world waiting for loving homes. Adoption agencies and shelters sometimes charge an adoption fee, which is usually around $75–$100. Breeders may charge more, and prices could range from $100–$800.

Temperament & Intelligence of the Domestic Medium Hair
The temperament of the Domestic Medium Hair varies greatly from cat to cat. You can find Domestic Medium Hairs that are independent, aloof, affectionate, well-mannered, sociable, sensitive, playful, docile, full of energy, and the list goes on.
With the right socialization, most Domestic Medium Hair cats are friendly, easygoing, and not too high-maintenance. They’re also smart enough to pick up the basics of house training—like how to use the litter box—without great difficulty.
Are These Cats Good for Families? 👪
Certainly! Domestic Medium Hairs are pretty adaptable and will have no trouble fitting into any loving family. If raised in a respectful environment, Domestic Medium Hairs thrive on and often greatly enjoy human company.
Though said to be loving and affectionate, they’re not considered excessively clingy. So, if you’re looking for a lovely family cat that will show plenty of affection and be companionable without being overly needy, a Domestic Medium Hair is worth considering.
Overall, the Domestic Medium hair is a dependable, sturdy breed. They can tolerate being alone for a few hours and do perfectly well in all types of loving, clean environments, from apartments to large, multi-bedroomed homes.




Image By: Mary Swift, Shutterstock
Does This Breed Get Along With Other Pets?
Again, this varies depending on your cat’s personality, but in general, Domestic Medium Hair cats get along well with other pets. It’s definitely easier for cats to assimilate into a household with other pets if socialized with them from a young age, but there’s no reason an adopted adult cat wouldn’t fit in with other pets, too.
If your Domestic Medium Hair is adopted as an adult, introduce them gradually to other pets in the household. Keep them separated for a day or two, then allow them to get used to the scent and general presence of the other pet before letting them meet face-to-face. Always supervise the meetings to ensure the safety of all your pets.

Things to Know When Owning a Domestic Medium Hair:
Food & Diet Requirements 🐡
Like other breeds, the Domestic Medium Hair has certain nutritional needs that must be met to ensure they stay healthy and happy. These needs don’t really differ from those of other breeds, and as long as they’re getting a balanced diet packed with protein, fiber, amino acids, vitamins, minerals, and high-quality grains, they should tick along quite happily.
It goes without saying that cats have different needs when it comes to food, and there’s no “one size fits all” approach. For cats with certain conditions like diabetes, your vet might recommend wet food as it contains more water. For overweight cats, you may need a type of food designed for appetite control. If you’re unsure what kind of diet is best for your Domestic Medium Hair, have a word with your vet.
Exercise 🐈
Domestic Medium Hair cats are often playful and active, so will need plenty of exercise. Like many cats, they enjoy chasing string and toy mice, climbing, and exploring. For this, you can provide a cat tree. If you have an apartment cat, consider putting cat trees next to windows—this way, they can climb, scratch, perch, and watch the world go by to their heart’s content!
Try to set aside some quality playtime for your Domestic Medium Hair every day. Even short, 10-minute bursts of playtime throughout the day can help keep them healthy, mentally stimulated, and out of trouble.




Image Credit: Quadronet_Webdev, Pixabay
Training 🧶
You’re unlikely to face any significant issues training your Domestic Medium Hair. They’re smart cats, more than capable of picking up the basics of house training. This depends on the cat, of course, but in most cases, you should be fine in this department.
Some cats can even be trained to play “fetch” and learn tricks. This depends on your Domestic Medium Hair’s personality—you may need to entice lazy cats with a treat or two!
Grooming ✂️
Though their fur is easier to maintain than their long-haired brothers and sisters, Domestic Medium Hair cats still require weekly grooming at least. This is because they have a thick double coat that can be prone to matting, especially around the tail area. Regular grooming helps to reduce hairballs, particularly in longer-haired breeds.
If you want to groom your Domestic Medium Hair more than once per week, that’s perfectly fine, too. Cats clean and groom themselves and each other, but most will appreciate a helping hand from their humans, especially if they’re on the fluffier side, like Domestic Medium Hairs. Grooming is also a great way to bond with your cat, and many grow to enjoy the feeling of being brushed very much.




Image Credit: Surapong, Shutterstock
Health and Conditions 🏥
Though Domestic Medium Hairs are considered a pretty sturdy, healthy breed with a decent life span, there are still a few health issues that owners should keep an eye out for. Also, it’s always a good idea to schedule frequent vet checks to make sure all is as it should be.
One of these conditions is hyperthyroidism, also known as an overactive thyroid. This means that too many thyroid hormones are being produced, and tumors can sometimes be the cause, though some are harmless. Signs of hyperthyroidism include weight loss, vomiting, diarrhea, increased urination, and thirst.
Another condition to watch out for is chronic kidney disease. Though this condition usually affects older cats, it can sometimes occur in younger cats and kittens, too. Sometimes, signs don’t appear until the disease has progressed to an advanced state. Signs include increased thirst, excessive urination, low appetite, weight loss, and lethargy.
Other conditions that sometimes affect Domestic Medium Hair are diabetes, upper respiratory issues, cancer, heart disease, and obesity.
Minor Conditions

 Stomach upsets
 Ear infections

Serious Conditions

 Chronic kidney disease
 Hyperthyroidism
 Diabetes
 Upper respiratory issues
 Cancer
 Heart disease
 Obesity



Male vs Female
In terms of sex, you’re unlikely to find any major differences. Domestic Medium Hairs are so diverse that gender can’t really dictate what kind of personality your cat will have. The best way to know for sure is to meet the cat before you adopt to get a better idea of what they’re like. Male or female, Domestic Medium Hairs both make excellent companions and each cat comes with their own special quirks.


3 Little-Known Facts About the Domestic Medium Hair Cat
1. “Medium Hair” is not really a breed.
Rather, the Domestic Medium Hair is a combination of many breeds. Though these cats are a cross between Longhairs and Shorthairs, traces of many other breeds can be found in a Domestic Medium Hair’s bloodlines. Pinning down the exact lineage of a Medium Hair is no simple task.

2. Domestic Medium Hairs are great for first-timers.
If you’re a first-time cat parent, a Domestic Medium Hair is an excellent choice. This is because they’re so varied in appearance and temperaments that you won’t have a hard time finding one that suits your preferences and lifestyle.

3. Their ancestors came to the United States on the Mayflower.
Domestic Medium Hairs descend from cats that came to the US on the Mayflower with pilgrims. They were considered useful for keeping the rodent population under control.




Image Credit: Pexels, Pixabay

Final Thoughts
Domestic Medium Hairs are the perfect cats for families of all shapes and sizes, whether that’s a single cat parent or a family with children or other pets. They’re a real mixed bag, diverse in both personality and appearance. This is what makes Domestic Medium Hairs so special and exciting.
If you’re considering adopting, there are plenty of Domestic Medium Hairs in shelters just waiting for their forever home. You will be paid back in an abundance of love, fun, and wonderful memories.
Sources

https://www.petmd.com/cat/nutrition/wet-cat-food-vs-dry-cat-food-which-better
https://www.pdsa.org.uk/pet-help-and-advice/pet-health-hub/conditions/chronic-kidney-disease-in-cats

 

Featured Image Credit: Surapong, Shutterstock
           How useful was this post?               Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)                                 Submit Rating                  Help us improve Catster for pet parents!       Your feedback really matters.          What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?            Submit Feedback
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The combination of several different cat breeds throughout history has resulted in a very lovely hybrid—the Domestic Medium Hair cat. Affectionately known as “mutts” due to their mixed lineage, this breed is commonly adopted by cat lovers.
Appearance-wise, the Domestic Medium Hair is around 9–14 inches tall and weighs between 11–22 pounds. They have medium-length double coats and come in a variety of colors and patterns—black, white, ginger, gray, tabby, tortoiseshell, smoke, unicolored, tricolored, multicolored, tuxedo, and much more. Their fur tends to be shorter on the back and fluffier around the face and the tail.
Height:
9–14 inches
Weight:
11–22 pounds
Lifespan:
15–18 years
Colors:
A wide range of colors and patterns possible
Suitable for:
Families with children and other pets, first-time cat owners, pretty much any loving cat parent
Temperament:
Ranges from independent and reserved to outgoing and sociable
Body types in Domestic Medium Hairs are pretty varied, too. While some are muscular and well-built, others are lithe and slender. In short, a very mixed gene pool is what makes Domestic Medium Hair cats so diverse and special—it’s hard to find two that look exactly the same.

It’s not hard to find Medium Hair cats to adopt. There are many in shelters all around the world waiting for loving homes. Adoption agencies and shelters sometimes charge an adoption fee, which is usually around $75–$100. Breeders may charge more, and prices could range from $100–$800.

The temperament of the Domestic Medium Hair varies greatly from cat to cat. You can find Domestic Medium Hairs that are independent, aloof, affectionate, well-mannered, sociable, sensitive, playful, docile, full of energy, and the list goes on.
With the right socialization, most Domestic Medium Hair cats are friendly, easygoing, and not too high-maintenance. They’re also smart enough to pick up the basics of house training—like how to use the litter box—without great difficulty.
Certainly! Domestic Medium Hairs are pretty adaptable and will have no trouble fitting into any loving family. If raised in a respectful environment, Domestic Medium Hairs thrive on and often greatly enjoy human company.
Though said to be loving and affectionate, they’re not considered excessively clingy. So, if you’re looking for a lovely family cat that will show plenty of affection and be companionable without being overly needy, a Domestic Medium Hair is worth considering.
Overall, the Domestic Medium hair is a dependable, sturdy breed. They can tolerate being alone for a few hours and do perfectly well in all types of loving, clean environments, from apartments to large, multi-bedroomed homes.
Again, this varies depending on your cat’s personality, but in general, Domestic Medium Hair cats get along well with other pets. It’s definitely easier for cats to assimilate into a household with other pets if socialized with them from a young age, but there’s no reason an adopted adult cat wouldn’t fit in with other pets, too.
If your Domestic Medium Hair is adopted as an adult, introduce them gradually to other pets in the household. Keep them separated for a day or two, then allow them to get used to the scent and general presence of the other pet before letting them meet face-to-face. Always supervise the meetings to ensure the safety of all your pets.

Like other breeds, the Domestic Medium Hair has certain nutritional needs that must be met to ensure they stay healthy and happy. These needs don’t really differ from those of other breeds, and as long as they’re getting a balanced diet packed with protein, fiber, amino acids, vitamins, minerals, and high-quality grains, they should tick along quite happily.
It goes without saying that cats have different needs when it comes to food, and there’s no “one size fits all” approach. For cats with certain conditions like diabetes, your vet might recommend wet food as it contains more water. For overweight cats, you may need a type of food designed for appetite control. If you’re unsure what kind of diet is best for your Domestic Medium Hair, have a word with your vet.
Domestic Medium Hair cats are often playful and active, so will need plenty of exercise. Like many cats, they enjoy chasing string and toy mice, climbing, and exploring. For this, you can provide a cat tree. If you have an apartment cat, consider putting cat trees next to windows—this way, they can climb, scratch, perch, and watch the world go by to their heart’s content!
Try to set aside some quality playtime for your Domestic Medium Hair every day. Even short, 10-minute bursts of playtime throughout the day can help keep them healthy, mentally stimulated, and out of trouble.
You’re unlikely to face any significant issues training your Domestic Medium Hair. They’re smart cats, more than capable of picking up the basics of house training. This depends on the cat, of course, but in most cases, you should be fine in this department.
Some cats can even be trained to play “fetch” and learn tricks. This depends on your Domestic Medium Hair’s personality—you may need to entice lazy cats with a treat or two!
Though their fur is easier to maintain than their long-haired brothers and sisters, Domestic Medium Hair cats still require weekly grooming at least. This is because they have a thick double coat that can be prone to matting, especially around the tail area. Regular grooming helps to reduce hairballs, particularly in longer-haired breeds.
If you want to groom your Domestic Medium Hair more than once per week, that’s perfectly fine, too. Cats clean and groom themselves and each other, but most will appreciate a helping hand from their humans, especially if they’re on the fluffier side, like Domestic Medium Hairs. Grooming is also a great way to bond with your cat, and many grow to enjoy the feeling of being brushed very much.
Though Domestic Medium Hairs are considered a pretty sturdy, healthy breed with a decent life span, there are still a few health issues that owners should keep an eye out for. Also, it’s always a good idea to schedule frequent vet checks to make sure all is as it should be.
One of these conditions is hyperthyroidism, also known as an overactive thyroid. This means that too many thyroid hormones are being produced, and tumors can sometimes be the cause, though some are harmless. Signs of hyperthyroidism include weight loss, vomiting, diarrhea, increased urination, and thirst.
Another condition to watch out for is chronic kidney disease. Though this condition usually affects older cats, it can sometimes occur in younger cats and kittens, too. Sometimes, signs don’t appear until the disease has progressed to an advanced state. Signs include increased thirst, excessive urination, low appetite, weight loss, and lethargy.
Other conditions that sometimes affect Domestic Medium Hair are diabetes, upper respiratory issues, cancer, heart disease, and obesity.

In terms of sex, you’re unlikely to find any major differences. Domestic Medium Hairs are so diverse that gender can’t really dictate what kind of personality your cat will have. The best way to know for sure is to meet the cat before you adopt to get a better idea of what they’re like. Male or female, Domestic Medium Hairs both make excellent companions and each cat comes with their own special quirks.

Rather, the Domestic Medium Hair is a combination of many breeds. Though these cats are a cross between Longhairs and Shorthairs, traces of many other breeds can be found in a Domestic Medium Hair’s bloodlines. Pinning down the exact lineage of a Medium Hair is no simple task.
If you’re a first-time cat parent, a Domestic Medium Hair is an excellent choice. This is because they’re so varied in appearance and temperaments that you won’t have a hard time finding one that suits your preferences and lifestyle.
Domestic Medium Hairs descend from cats that came to the US on the Mayflower with pilgrims. They were considered useful for keeping the rodent population under control.

Domestic Medium Hairs are the perfect cats for families of all shapes and sizes, whether that’s a single cat parent or a family with children or other pets. They’re a real mixed bag, diverse in both personality and appearance. This is what makes Domestic Medium Hairs so special and exciting.
If you’re considering adopting, there are plenty of Domestic Medium Hairs in shelters just waiting for their forever home. You will be paid back in an abundance of love, fun, and wonderful memories.
Featured Image Credit: Surapong, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Kit Copson is a freelance writer and lifelong animal lover with a strong interest in animal welfare. She has parented various furry beings over the years and is currently a proud cat mom of two—one very chilled (unless hungry) Siamese and a skittish but adorable Domestic Shorthair—and dog mom of one—an adopted Bichon Poodle cross. When not writing about or spending time with animals, Kit can be found doodling in her sketchpad, reading, or more often than not, drinking tea.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share
Click to Skip Ahead      



















 


Kittens
Temperament and Intelligence
Food and Diet
Exercise 
Training 
Grooming 
Health Concerns 
Male vs Female
Little Known Facts
Tips for a Happy Cat
Essential Supplies



          Height:9 – 14 inches    Weight:11 – 22 pounds   Lifespan:15 – 18 years          Colors:Many different colors and patterns     Suitable for:Pretty much anyone that loves cats         Temperament:Depends on the ancestry of the cat
Do you think a domestic medium hair cat would be a good fit for your home? If so, continue reading to learn everything you need to know about this breed! Domestic medium hair cats are known for being affectionate and good-natured. They enjoy spending time with their families and are generally very easygoing.
These cats also tend to be relatively low maintenance when it comes to care. They are typically not picky eaters and do not require much grooming. Another plus is that they come in a wide variety of colors and patterns, so you are sure to find one that suits your taste! Keep reading to learn more about the history of this breed and some health concerns to be aware of.

Domestic Medium Hair Kittens
Click to Skip Ahead
Height:
9 – 14 inches
Weight:
11 – 22 pounds
Lifespan:
15 – 18 years
Colors:
Many different colors and patterns
Suitable for:
Pretty much anyone that loves cats
Temperament:
Depends on the ancestry of the cat
Do you think a domestic medium hair cat would be a good fit for your home? If so, continue reading to learn everything you need to know about this breed! Domestic medium hair cats are known for being affectionate and good-natured. They enjoy spending time with their families and are generally very easygoing.
These cats also tend to be relatively low maintenance when it comes to care. They are typically not picky eaters and do not require much grooming. Another plus is that they come in a wide variety of colors and patterns, so you are sure to find one that suits your taste! Keep reading to learn more about the history of this breed and some health concerns to be aware of.


A post shared by Kitty Bungalow Charm School (@kittybungalow)

You can get a domestic medium hair cat from a variety of places. You can adopt one from a shelter or rescue, buy one from a breeder, or find one as a stray.
If you are interested in getting a domestic medium hair, it is important to choose a responsible breeder. This will help ensure that your cat is healthy and has a good temperament. A responsible breeder will be able to provide you with information about the parents and grandparents of your cat. They should also be able to provide you with a health certificate from a veterinarian.
When looking for a breeder, be sure to avoid those that are selling kittens in pet stores or online. These kittens are often sick and have not been properly socialized. It is also important to avoid breeders that allow visitors to handle their kittens too much. This can lead to the spread of disease and trauma for the kittens.
The best way to find a responsible breeder is to ask for recommendations from friends or your veterinarian. Once you have found a few breeders, be sure to visit their facilities and meet the cats before making a decision.

A post shared by Sarge, Kimchi & Yoshi (@sugabugakiefy)


Although the exact temperament and personality can vary greatly depending on the cat, overall, the domestic medium hair is a great breed for those looking for an affectionate and easygoing cat. But let’s take a closer look at some individual personality traits that your domestic medium hair is likely to have.
Affectionate
Domestic medium hair cats are known for being very loving and affectionate. They enjoy spending time with their humans and love to cuddle.
Intelligence
The domestic medium hair is an intelligent breed of cat, which means they are easy to train. If you are looking for a cat that can learn tricks or behaviors, this may be the breed for you!
Social
These cats are also known for being very social, so they do well in homes with other pets. They love to play and explore, so they need plenty of space to run and roam.
Loyal
Another personality trait of domestic medium hair cats is that they are very loyal to their humans. They form strong bonds with their owners and will follow them around the house.
Independent
However, they can also be independent at times and do enjoy having some alone time.

A post shared by Yuki | Domestic Medium Hair Cat (@yukitheofficialcat)

Laid-Back
Domestic medium hair cats are generally very laid-back and easygoing. They make great family pets and do well in a variety of homes.
If you are looking for a loving and affectionate cat, the domestic medium hair is a great choice. They are also relatively low-maintenance when it comes to care. However, there are a few things to keep in mind. These cats can be prone to obesity, so it is important to feed them a healthy diet and give them plenty of exercise. They may also require more grooming than other breeds. But overall, the domestic medium hair is a great choice for those looking for an easygoing and social cat.
Yes, domestic medium hair cats are generally good for a variety of family dynamics, but particularly for those with kids. They are known for being patient and tolerant, which makes them great companions for families with children. Of course, every cat is different, and some may not do well in a home with small children. If you have young kids, it is best to introduce them to your cat slowly and supervise all interactions.
Yes, domestic medium hair cats usually get along with other pets. They are generally social creatures that enjoy the company of others. However, some may not do well with dogs or other animals that are too active. If you have another pet, it is best to introduce them slowly and see how they get along.
Also keep in mind that if you have small pets, such as hamsters, mice, birds, and even lizards and fish, that you keep them out of reach of your cat. Although you may view these pets as members of the family, your cat may not see them that way and may mistake them for something it can hunt. Small pets make great “toys” for cats so it is best to avoid any tragedies by not allowing your cat easy access to them.
The domestic medium hair is not well-suited to life as an outdoor cat. They are not as resilient as other breeds and may succumb to injury or illness if left outside. Additionally, they are not good hunters and are more likely to become prey themselves. If you do want your cat to enjoy the outdoors, it is best to build them a safe enclosure where they can explore and sun themselves in safety.

Domestic medium hair cats don’t generally need a special diet. It is best to feed them food that is high-quality and full of proteins and healthy and nutritious ingredients. Being obligate carnivores, cats benefit from a diet that is mostly meat-based. Choosing food with a meat-based protein as the first ingredient is the best thing for your cat.
Energy and Activity Level
This breed of cat has a moderate energy level, which means they enjoy playing and being active but are not overly hyper. They typically do well in homes with families or other pets.

A post shared by Winston & Hudson (@the.floofertons)

What Are the Exercise Needs of Domestic Medium Hair Cats?
Domestic medium hair cats have moderate exercise needs. They should be given plenty of opportunities to run, jump, and play. A good way to provide your cat with exercise is to invest in a scratching post or cat tree. This will give them a place to climb and explore, which will help to keep them active.
What Are The Stimulation Needs Of A Domestic Medium Hair Cat?
Domestic medium hair cats need a moderate amount of stimulation. They should have plenty of toys to keep them entertained, as well as a few hiding places where they can go to relax. It is also important to provide them with access to the outdoors so that they can explore and get some fresh air.
Domestic medium hair cats are a pretty intelligent breed. It shouldn’t take long for them to pick up on things such as using the litter box. Remember that cats are not dogs, so they aren’t usually as responsive to being trained the way that dogs are. However, with a little patience, you may be able to teach them to walk with a leash or even do tricks.
How to Teach Your Cat to Do Tricks
Now that you know how intelligent they are, you may be wondering how to teach your cat tricks. The best way to do this is to start with simple commands such as sit, stay, come, and down.
To teach them simple commands, use a treat or toy as motivation. Once they learn the commands, you can move on to more advanced tricks such as playing fetch or using the toilet.
Once they have mastered these, you can move on to more complex tricks like fetching or playing dead.
As with any type of training, it is important to be patient and consistent. Be sure to praise them when they do something right and give them treats as a reward. With a little time and effort, you will be able to teach your cat all sorts of tricks!
The domestic medium hair has relatively low grooming needs. However, they may require more grooming than other breeds if their fur becomes matted. It is important to brush your cat’s fur regularly and keep an eye on their nails. Other than that, your cat will take care of their own grooming.
Shedding
One thing to keep in mind with the domestic medium hair is that they are moderate shedders. This means they will shed more than some breeds, but less than others. If you are not a fan of cleaning up cat hair, this may not be the breed for you.
Are Domestic Medium Hair Cats Hypoallergenic?
The domestic medium hair is not a hypoallergenic breed. However, they are considered to be moderate-shedding. This means that they will shed less than some breeds, but more than others. If you are allergic to cats but still want to adopt one, the domestic medium hair is a good choice provided that you stay on top of cleaning and removing pet fur and dander from around your home.
Do Domestic Medium Hair Cats Have Any Special Care Needs?
No, domestic medium hair cats do not have any special care needs. They are relatively low-maintenance pets that are easy to care for. However, it is important to brush their teeth and keep them up-to-date on vaccinations.
Despite their mixed heritage, domestic medium hair cats are generally very healthy. However, there are a few health conditions to be aware of, which can vary among domestic medium hair cats of different lineages.
Feline Immunodeficiency Virus (FIV)
One is feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV), which is a virus that can weaken the immune system. It is important to get your cat tested for this virus if you think they may have been exposed to it.
Heart Disease
Another condition to be aware of is heart disease, which is relatively common in domestic medium hair cats. If you notice your cat coughing or having difficulty breathing, be sure to take them to the vet right away.
Obesity
One health concern to be aware of with domestic medium hair cats is that they are prone to obesity. This is because they tend to have a very high metabolism and can easily become overweight if they do not get enough exercise. It is important to make sure your cat gets plenty of playtime and enjoys a healthy diet.
Digestive Issues
Another health concern to be aware of is that some domestic medium hair cats are prone to digestive issues. This is because they have a very sensitive stomach and can easily get upset if they eat something that does not agree with them. If you notice your cat vomiting or having diarrhea, be sure to take them to the vet right away.
Diabetes
One health concern to be aware of with domestic medium hair cats is that they are prone to diabetes. This is because they tend to have a very high metabolism and can easily become overweight if they do not get enough exercise. It is important to make sure your cat gets plenty of playtime and enjoys a healthy diet.
Overactive Thyroid
The last health concern to be aware of is that some domestic medium hair cats are prone to overactive thyroid. This is because they have a very high metabolism and can easily become overweight if they do not get enough exercise. It is important to make sure your cat gets plenty of playtime and enjoys a healthy diet.
How Often Should I Take My Cat To The Vet?
You should take your cat to the vet at least once a year for a check-up. This will help to ensure that they are healthy and up to date on vaccinations. If you have any concerns about your cat’s health, it is best to consult with your vet.
There are very few differences between male and female domestic medium hair cats in terms of gender. Males may be slightly bigger, but other than that, you aren’t going to notice much difference in their appearance. Whether you get a male or a female, spaying or neutering your cat can help reduce certain behaviors and health conditions in domestic medium hair cats.

The domestic medium hair breed originated in the United States. These cats were originally bred from a mix of European shorthair and longhair cats. The goal was to create a cat that had the best traits of both breeds, and the result was the domestic medium hair! This type of cat became very popular in homes across America, and they are still one of the most popular breeds today.
Because these cats are of such mixed ancestry, no two domestic medium hair cats will be alike. They can have a variety of coat colors and patterns. They can also have a variety of different temperaments. It all depends on the genetics of the cat and its parents, grandparents, etc.
If you’ve never had a cat before, then a domestic medium hair cat makes the perfect pet. They generally have a very calm, docile, and affectionate temperament. But because there is such a variety of these cats to choose from, it won’t be difficult to find one that meshes well with the personality and lifestyle of you and your family.

Now that you know a little more about the domestic medium hair, here are some tips to help keep your cat happy and healthy!
There are a few essential supplies that you will need for your cat. These include food, water, a litter box, litter, and a scratching post or cat tree. You may also want to consider investing in a carrier so that you can take your cat to the vet or on trips.
As for stimulation and exercise, your cat will need access to plenty of toys and hiding places. It is also important to provide them with a scratching post or cat tree so that they can stay active.

Are you thinking about adding a domestic medium-hair cat to your family? If so, here are a few things to keep in mind! These cats make great pets for families with kids and other pets. They are affectionate and social animals that enjoy spending time with their loved ones. They are also relatively low maintenance when it comes to care, although they do require some grooming.
Be sure to talk to your vet about any health concerns you may have and keep an eye on their weight to prevent obesity. With a little love and attention, your domestic medium-hair cat will be a happy and healthy member of the family!
Featured Image Credit: Surapong, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Why Do Cats Always Land on Their Feet? Science-Based Facts & FAQ
Can Cats Eat Kale? Vet-Reviewed Nutrition Facts & FAQ
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Sign up to our newsletter and be the first to find out about new arrivals, exclusive promos and helpful cat-related tips
by signing up to our newsletter you are agreeing to our privacy policy
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Dogs
Cats
Info
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
Our online vet service is live
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Domestic Medium-Haired cats (DMH) are sometimes known as the mutt of the feline world. Don’t think of the DMH as a breed, as they’re technically not a single breed. Instead, the term DMH refers to a specific type of cat with a medium-length coat that comes from a wide variety of other breeds.
Height:
9–14 inches
Weight:
11–22 pounds
Lifespan:
15–17 years
Colors:
All the colors of the kitty rainbow
Suitable for:
Households with children and other pets, first-time pet owners, those who don’t have their heart set on any particular look or temperament
Temperament:
Playful, energetic, friendly, independent, reserved, shy
DMH cats run the gamut in both appearance and temperament. You can find a DMH with an orange tabby pattern that’s loyal and loving just as easily as you can find a tortoiseshell DMH who prefers peace and solitude.
If you’re wondering if a DMH is the right kitty for your household, let us help you make that decision. Keep reading to learn everything you’ve ever wanted to know about these beloved mutts of the cat world.

Domestic medium-haired kittens are not an exceptionally rare breed. They may be slightly more difficult to find than their long- and short-haired cousins, but the chances are that there’s an adoption shelter in your area with a DMH kitten waiting for you. Since they’re not a pedigree breed, your fees to adopt one will likely be on the lower end of the spectrum.
The temperament of a Domestic Medium Hair cat is hard to predict. They can be very friendly and playful, but also shy and independent. They are generally healthy and with enough love and care, they should grow into happy and healthy cats.
Since the gene pool of this breed is so big, it is impossible to provide a temperament and intelligence description that suits every Domestic Medium Haired cat. Every cat of this breed will have its own personality traits.
One DMH in a litter of kittens might grow to be shy, reserved, and independent, while another kitten from that same litter might be sociable, loving, and outgoing.
Early training and socialization can help timid DMH cats become more tolerant towards their human family members. This isn’t a guarantee, however. Some cats are born the way they are and will never change their personality regardless of how much they’re socialized.
Absolutely. The DMH cat is a great pet for households with children. As kittens, most DMH cats are very playful and easy to get along with. As long as your children can understand boundaries and know when to stop when their cat is done playing, they should get along just fine.
Of course, it is always best to begin the socialization journey when your cat is as young as possible. When they grow up around children, chances are they’ll be more patient and tolerant than if they first meet a child when they’re a full-grown adult cat.
DMH cats can get along with other cats and dogs, provided that they’re introduced when they’re young. It is still possible for your DMH to live harmoniously with other household pets if you adopt them when they’re older, but you must introduce them to one another slowly over a few weeks. The more patient you can be, the higher the chances of success. Your pets need to get used to the scent of one another before they even lay eyes on each other. You’ll also need to provide supervision during the first few meetings to ensure the safety of all your pets.

There are no specific nutritional needs for the DMH based solely on their breed. Like all other cats, DMH cats thrive on a balanced diet that’s packed with protein and other essential vitamins and minerals.
Cats are obligate carnivores which means they need nutrients that can only be found in animal products. Look for commercial cat foods that list real meat as the first ingredient. The following four ingredients should also be high-quality as they will be found in higher quantities in your cat’s food than items found lower on the ingredient list.
If your DMH has certain health conditions, you should inquire with your vet to learn what the best diet will be for their specific needs. Cats who are overweight, for example, will need a calorie-controlled diet to prevent obesity. Those who are diabetic will need a diet higher in protein and lower in carbohydrates.

A post shared by Blu, Snow, Mystic & Orla (@catastic_quartet)

Exercise is an important component of cat care that a lot of owners don’t think about. Not only does physical activity satisfy your cat’s natural hunting instincts, but it’s great for keeping them at a healthy weight and ensuring they have a healthy outlet for their energy levels.
Many DMH cats are playful and energetic, though not all of them will have these personality traits.
Every household with cats should have at least one cat tree for their kitties for climbing and playing purposes.
You should also invest in a few different kinds of cat toys to see which work best with your cat’s personality. Some love feather wand toys, while others go buck wild for springs or balls. Some will turn their noses up at electronic toys, while others can’t get enough of them.
Set aside a few minutes every day to play with your cat, especially if they don’t have a playmate in other household pets.
DMH cats can be highly trainable, but not all of them are. Their trainability will depend on their individual personality traits. If you happen to adopt an easygoing and excessively intelligent DMH kitten, you’ll find that training them shouldn’t be very difficult. They can learn to play fetch and perform other tricks with the right motivation (hint: treats).
If you find your DMH cat isn’t as easy to train as you expected, don’t give up. Even the most stubborn of cats can be trained with a little (or a lot of) patience.
The grooming needs of the DMH cat are not as demanding as they are for their long-haired cousins, but you will still need to perform your duties as a cat parent by assisting them with grooming weekly.
Since DMHs have a thick, double coat, they’ll need to be brushed at least once a week to prevent tangles, skin irritation, and fur matting. You may need to commit to more regular brushings during shedding season.
Proper grooming can also reduce how many hairballs your cat ingests. Hairballs aren’t only an inconvenience for you, but they can pose a serious health threat if they grow too large and cannot be regurgitated.
Unlike some pedigreed cat breeds, the “mutt” domestic shorthair cat is not prone to any particular health condition specifically based on their genetics. As with any other cat breed, though, there are some conditions you should be on the lookout for.
Obesity is an extremely common condition in cats with an upwards of 50% of cats between age 5 and 11 considered to be obese. Luckily, this is one health condition that is entirely preventable. When given unlimited access to food, many DMH cats will wind up consuming much more food than they need. Obesity can shorten your cat’s lifespan as well as put them at risk of serious health conditions like cancer, diabetes, and osteoarthritis.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is another common ailment often seen in older cats (7+ years). This condition is progressive and begins with subtle and mild symptoms that can often go unnoticed. As it worsens, you might notice your kitty is losing weight, excessively thirsty, urinating often, and not eating as much.
Hyperthyroidism is another somewhat common condition that is often diagnosed in older cats. It affects up to 10% of the feline population over age 10. It occurs when there is an overproduction of your cat’s thyroid hormone. Symptoms of this condition include weight loss, hyperactivity, matted coat, and increased vocalization. Hyperthyroidism can cause high blood pressure and heart disease.
Other health conditions you may need to be on the lookout for in your DMH cat include:
Sex doesn’t dictate temperament or personality traits, so we don’t recommend basing your adoption solely on the sex of your pet.

The DMH cat is essentially the combination of many different cat breeds from all around the globe and isn’t technically considered a breed. The DMH cat has gone through generation after generation of mixed breeding to achieve the look they have today. If you were to DNA test your DMH cat, the chances are that you’d find many breeds in their bloodline.
It is this mixed ancestry that makes it difficult to provide an exact temperament, intelligence, appearance, or personality description. Since their ancestors are a wide variety of different breeds, modern DMHs come in all colors, patterns, and builds, and no two will have the same personality traits.
The DMH has a unique gene in its DNA that gives it its luxurious, soft, mid-length fur. If it weren’t for this gene, the DMH would look very similar to the domestic shorthair. DMH cats have a thick, double coat that is easier to maintain than the coats of their long-haired cousins but requires more grooming than domestic shorthair cats.
The introduction of the DMH cat to the United States is traced back to the early 1600s. The Pilgrims brought the ancestors of the DMH over on the Mayflower as a means of deterring the rampant rodent population on their ships. These kitties were also tasked with the job of protecting food and keeping the ships’ passengers safe from rodent-borne diseases.

Domestic medium-hair cats are beautiful and unique in a lot of ways. Their physical appearance and character traits will vary greatly from cat to cat, so you truly never know what you’re going to get when a litter of DMH kittens is born. The unknown is part of what makes owning a DMH so exciting.
These cats are great for families with children and other pets, so long as you have the patience to introduce them slowly. They can be friendly and loyal lap cats who never leave your side or independent and reserved roommates who you share a household with and nothing more.
If you’re willing to roll the dice and aren’t afraid of the unknown when it comes to appearance and temperament, the DMH is a great, hardy cat with a lot to offer its owners. If you prefer to know what you’re getting yourself into, you might want to steer clear of this “mutt” of the feline world.
Featured Image Credit: Mary Swift, Shutterstock
Share
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve PangoVet for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

No stressful travel
Personalized advice
Read more
We are here to help. Simply schedule an appointment by clicking on the button below.
5.0
At PangoVet, we care about you, your pet, and the bond that makes them family. We are here to keep them happy and healthy.
+1 (530) 453-0360[email protected]
2999 Douglas Blvd., Suite 180M, Roseville, CA 95661 United States
Warning: If your pet has suffered a sudden trauma or is experiencing any life-threatening signs, such as breathing difficulties, bleeding, or bloating, don’t waste valuable time and take them to the nearest emergency clinic.
Copyright © 2025 PangoVet. All rights reserved.
Didn't find what you need? Use the search!
Close the search
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Fazlyeva Kamilla, Shutterstock
Last Updated on March 12, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
If you don’t have time for the constant grooming that a longhaired cat requires but you still want a soft, fluffy feline, a medium-hair cat breed is a great middle-of-the-road option. These cats still require grooming, but a weekly brush is enough, compared to the daily brushing needed with breeds like Persians.
Apart from maintenance, there is also the aesthetic of a medium-hair cat — they are beautiful and unique in their own way. Lastly, with a medium-hair cat, you’ll still get the soft, fluffy, cuddle factor, but without long hair being left on every surface of your home.
We searched for all the medium-hair cat breeds that we could find and put this list together, with pictures, to help you choose the perfect medium-hair breed to bring home!

The Abyssinian is an affectionate, easy-to-care-for cat that typically has short to medium-length coats. These cats are medium-sized with large ears and a “ticked” coat, meaning that each individual hair has different colored bands. They are easy cats to have in the home, as they are low-maintenance and friendly with other animals and love to spend time with their owners.
A fairly uncommon breed, the American Bobtail is an incredibly intelligent cat with a distinctively wild appearance. They are fairly large cats with characteristically short yet expressive tails. These cats can take 2-3 years to reach full maturity. Overall, they are interactive cats that love to be around humans and love to play.
The American Shorthair is an easy-going breed that is generally placid and happy to entertain themselves. This is a powerful cat with a broad chest, muscular neck and body, and thick, strong legs. These cats are easy to care for with moderate grooming needs, and they don’t need a large amount of human interaction.
The Balinese has a medium to long coat that is silky and straight and has darker tinting toward their paws, tail, and head. They are long, slender cats that are lively and active and enjoy playing with their owners and other cats. While they can be fairly independent at times, they will regularly come for a cuddle on their owner’s lap.
The strikingly beautiful Bengal cat was created by crossing various domestic cats with the Asian Leopard cat, creating a unique, wild-looking feline with a distinctive spotted coat. This medium-hair cat is not for a novice owner: While they are generally sweet and loving most of the time, they can be unpredictable too. They are fun-loving cats that love to play and uniquely, love water.
The Birman is a large cat with a long body and unusual markings. Their soft coats come in a variety of colors and are often pointed and/or mitted in pattern. They also have deep blue eyes. These cats are fairly territorial and can attach themselves to one owner. They generally keep to themselves but are known to become jealous if their owners don’t give them enough attention.
A rare medium-hair cat breed from France, the Chartreux is a large and muscular feline known for their unique blue coat and short limbs. Their coats are waterproof and thick and often show breaks similar to a sheep’s coat. They are also widely adored for their smile: The shape of their muzzles and the structure of their head gives them the appearance of smiling.
Cyprus cats are highly energetic and athletic, with thick, medium- to long-haired coats. The breed was developed on the small island of Cyprus, where they adapted to the cooler, mountainous regions. These cats are expert hunters and have hunted fairly large prey, including rats, big lizards, and even snakes.
A hybrid hailing from a mix of both short-hair and long-hair breeds, the Domestic Medium Hair cat is a muscular breed that can come in an infinite variety of coat patterns and colors. Given that this breed has diverse genetics from mixed breeding, they can vary widely in temperament but are generally playful and easy-going.
One of the few breeds of naturally spotted domestic cats, the Egyptian Mau has spots that occur only on the very tips of their fur. They have a muscular body and the shorter front legs characteristic of wildcats. One of the most recognizable traits of the breed is the long, dark dorsal stripe that runs the length of their spine. These cats are also one of the fastest domestic breeds, capable of speeds of up to 30 mph.
Originating in Sweden, the European Shorthair is a medium-sized muscular cat with a short to medium-length coat. These cats are expert hunters and are often used as capable ratters, and they get along well with other pets. They are intelligent and playful cats that are ideal for families with small children. This breed is fairly rare and has been named the national cat of Finland.
Developed as a shorthaired version of the fluffy Persian, the Exotic Shorthair is similar to Persians in several ways. They have the same flat nose and face and gentle and calm personality. These cats are highly affectionate and tend to show more love and affection toward humans than most other breeds, and they don’t like being left at home alone.
The result of breeding a Siamese and domestic black cat, the Havana Brown has a unique chocolate-colored coat with no markings or patterns. These cats are playful, highly curious, and social, preferring to greet guests rather than hide away, as most other breeds do. A unique trait among Havana Browns is their love of playing with and grooming their owner’s hair while riding around on their shoulders.
Developed in the U.S. completely by chance, the La Perm is a curious and easy-going cat with a docile and highly affectionate nature. They are a medium hair cat that has a characteristically curly coat (hence the name, “La Perm”) that can come in many colors and pattern variations. These cats are outgoing and friendly in nature and are said to be hypoallergenic, which is ideal for owners with allergies.
Famed for their short and stubby or otherwise non-existent tail, the Manx breed originated on the Isle of Man. Along with the genetic mutation that causes their unique stubby tail, these cats are also known for their short front legs, rounded head, and soft, thick, double-layered coat. They are social cats that get attached to their owners, often following them around like puppies. They also learn simple commands faster than most other breeds.
Also commonly known as a “sausage cat,” the Munchkin’s most notable characteristic is their very short legs, which are caused by a genetic mutation. There is a great deal of controversy surrounding the breed due to health and mobility issues. The breed is still fairly new, so it is still unclear how much of an effect the unique mutation will have on the health of this breed.
The Ocicat looks like they have wildcat genes, but in fact, they have none. They are typical of a domestic cat except in their coat colors and markings, which are usually made up of contrasting spots. They have a strong and muscular body with a large head that is longer than it is wide. Despite their appearance, they are sociable, friendly, and even-tempered felines.
Once considered a variant of the Ragdoll cat, the Ragamuffin is now recognized as a separate breed and is known for their friendly character and their medium- to long-length coat. They are large, muscular cats that can take up to 5 years to fully physically mature. Like their Ragdoll cousins, they are laidback, easy-going cats that are often considered a lazy breed.
The Ragdoll is a large and stocky cat with a medium-length, color-point coat, and striking blue eyes. They get their name from their tendency to go limp and relax like a ragdoll when picked up, and they are considered to be a lazy breed. They are also known to be one of the most “dog-like” breeds due to their even and playful temperament and their attachment to their owners.
The Scottish Fold is an easily recognizable breed due to their forward-folded ears. The breed has a unique genetic mutation that affects the cartilage throughout their bodies and causes the folding of their ears. They are placid and easy-going cats that typically become highly attached to their owners, and they are highly playful and intelligent.
The Siberian is an ancient breed, a centuries-old domestic cat that originated in Russia. They have a hardy, thick coat that protects them from the cold Russian temperatures and is easy to groom and care for. They are well known for their agility, powerful, muscular bodies and their endearing soft round eyes. They are fairly rare outside of Europe due to the high costs of importation.
Believed to have originated in Somalia, the Somali cat is most recognized by their bushy tails, large eyes, and oversized pointed ears, earning them the nickname of “fox cat.” They typically have a striking golden-brown coat “ticked” with black, but they can come in a variety of other colors and patterns.
A domestic cat breed developed by crossing a Siamese and a Burmese, the Tonkinese cat shares many traits with their parent breeds, including the pointed coat pattern and a lively and active personality. They are highly social cats that love to be around people and consequently, quickly become lonely and bored when left alone. Like their Burmese parents, they are often seen acting in dog-like ways, like fetching and following their owners around.
Originating in Turkey, the Turkish Angora is an ancient breed and has been documented as far back as the 17th century. They are most well known for their snow-white, medium- to long-length coats, but they can be found in a variety of other colors too. These cats are intelligent, playful, and affectionate and bond strongly with their human owners.
The Turkish Van was developed in the U.K. from a variety of Turkish breeds and is fairly rare. They are most recognizable by their “van-patterned” coat in which the colors are restricted to the head and tail only, leaving most of their body white. They are social cats that bond strongly with their owners and are playful and lively felines ideal for families.
Developed from two small wildcat species, the European Wildcat and African Wildcat, these cats are not for novice owners. They are largely solitary, nocturnal, and highly predatory. They typically have long, pointed ears with large eyes and are generally larger than most domestic cats, with a characteristically long tail that can exceed one-half of their body length.
Featured Image Credit: Fazlyeva Kamilla, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
