Cat Breeds
Playful and curious when at home with family, the Egyptian Mau cat can be cautious or standoffish with strangers. These stunning cats are highly intelligent, with a reputation for using their musical voices to make conversation with their favorite people.
Like most felines, these Egyptian beauties love to relax when the time comes, but for the most part, they are not couch potatoes. Fast and athletic, they truly enjoy playtime, and their ability to learn interactive games has given them a reputation for having almost doglike personalities.
If you bring an Egyptian Mau cat into your family, you will need to spend plenty of time helping to bring out the best in their personality. Be sure to focus on socialization to prevent problems at the vet and to ensure that the cat is comfortable with visitors. Take care to ensure that all interactions are as positive as possible, so the cat learns that humans are fun and friendly, and that treats are involved when good behavior is put on display.
If you plan to show your Egyptian Mau cat, socialization takes on an even more important role: Aggressive cats are disqualified immediately and antisocial individuals aren't viewed as desirable even when their markings are beautiful.
Although Egyptian Mau cats have no special nutritional needs, like most cats, they thrive on a high-protein diet. Even though they are active, these cats are fairly small and overfeeding can lead to obesity, which can create pain and joint issues. It's important to check with your vet to ensure that you're feeding the correct amount.
The Egyptian Mau cat has a short, fine coat. They'll appreciate the opportunity to bond with you as you brush and polish the coat to bring out the shine. Brushing once or twice per week will help cut down on shedding, too.
Trim the nails every one to two weeks, and look inside the ears weekly to check for abnormal redness or odor, or excessive dirt in the ears. If the ears look dirty, clean them with a pet-safe ear cleaner and wipe with cotton balls or a piece of gauze.
Egyptian Mau cats love to play. These cats enjoy fun of all kinds, but they truly enjoy running and jumping. This breed holds the land speed record for domesticated cats: Egyptian Mau cats have been clocked at 30 miles per hour!
These cats appreciate toys just as much as other active breeds. They'll happily play by themselves, and they enjoy interacting with you, as well. The Egyptian Mau can be taught to walk on a leash and retrieve, which are fantastic ways to help expend energy and expand opportunities for socialization. In addition to toys, be sure that your Egyptian Mau cat has access to multiple scratching posts and a tall cat tower that satisfies their need to jump and climb.
Even with all the right cat furniture in place, these cats can be found peering down from the tops of cupboards, bookshelves, refrigerators, and other high vantage points.
Egyptian Mau cats are generally healthy, but like many pedigreed cats, they they may be prone to certain genetic disorders common in the breed.
Some issues seen in Egyptian Mau include a type of heart disease called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, pyruvate kinase deficiency (a condition that causes anemia), leukodystrophy (a rare genetic disorder affecting the spine and brain), and urolithiasis, which is a form of bladder stones. Proper diet can help prevent stone formation, as can ample hydration.
Consider feeding your Egyptian Mau fresh food or high-quality canned food rather than dry food since lack of moisture can contribute to kidney, bladder, and urinary-tract disease.
As the breed's name suggests, the Egyptian Mau cat is thought to have originated in Egypt, though there are no clear records as to how Egyptian street cats became the modern breed we know today. No one knows exactly when these cats were developed, but if the Egyptian Mau can indeed trace its roots back to Egypt, the breed is an ancient one.
Egyptian hieroglyphics depict spotted cats that bear similarities to today’s Egyptian Mau cats, so it is entirely possible that this breed or its close ancestors were among those revered by ancient Egyptian people, perhaps more than 3,500 years ago.
The standardized Egyptian Mau cats we know and love today were likely developed using spotted Egyptian street cats, which are believed to count North African wildcats among their ancestors.
During the early centuries A.D., Romans brought spotted Egyptian cats to Italy, and from there, these cats made their way around Europe. It is likely that domestic cats with Egyptian origins interbred with European wildcats, ultimately treating humanity to the northern European domestic cats that are so prevalent now.
Pedigreed Egyptian cats were bred in Europe prior to the second World War, but few records survive. Like many cat breeds, the Egyptian Mau was nearly extinct by the end of World War II; food shortages and widespread devastation led to tragedy for pets all throughout the affected regions.
Luckily, this particular breed was given a second chance. An exiled Russian princess named Nathalie Troubetzkoy was serving as a nurse in Rome during the early 1950s when she was given a silver spotted female kitten. This kitten had originated with a diplomat from one of Rome's Middle East embassies, although history has forgotten which one.
After some research, Troubetzkoy came to the conclusion that the spotted kitten was an Egyptian Mau. She named the kitten Lulu or Ludol, and acquired a black male Egyptian Mau named Gregorio. She used her diplomatic contacts to import more Egyptian Mau cats from the Middle East and her first litter of Egyptian Mau kittens was born in 1953.
In 1956, the princess emigrated to America, bringing three of her treasured Egyptian Mau cats with her. Two of these cats, a silver female named Fatima Baba and a bronze male named Fatima Jojo formed the foundation for today's Egyptian Mau cat breed.
The Cat Fanciers' Federation registered these Egyptian Mau cats in 1956 when they first arrived in the United States. Soon, other registries including the Canadian Cat Association and the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) recognized the new line of Egyptian Mau cats. CFA granted the breed championship status in 1977.
These days, Egyptian Mau breeders can be found worldwide; however, they are few and far between because the Egyptian Mau cat is still a rare breed.
Not all cats like to play in water, but some Egyptian Mau cats will do anything to get their paws wet and have even been known to try to join their owners in the shower or bath.
According to the breed standard, only silver, bronze, and smoke colors are suitable for show, but the Egyptian Mau cat comes in five colors, all displaying variations on the exotic spotted pattern that gives this breed its unique appearance. Black and pewter Egyptian Mau cats are considered pet quality.
The spots on the Egyptian Mau cat's coat occur naturally. These markings make this breed the only naturally occurring spotted domestic cat.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Egyptian Mau, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Egyptian Mau or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase an Egyptian Mau, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Egyptian Mau cats cost between $500-$3,500.
Egyptian Mau cats tend to be small in size. A fully grown Egyptian Mau cat might weigh between 6-14 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 11"-14" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Egyptian Mau is 12-15 years.
Egyptian Mau are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
I bought my two silver siblings from a breeder in Virginia after considerable research into the breed. They are everything predicted. Both were Champions on the show circuit before I got them, and are the closest two animals I have ever seen. They love people and other pets, though Clapton is more extroverted than Layla. Both speak with large vocabularies, easily interpreted, some unusual and beautiful. They both fetch and come when I whistle. Both sleep with me unless I have guests who sleep with open doors. Clapton is the fastest animal I have ever seen up close. The two of them will chase each other at remarkable speed only inches apart, dodging obstacles in perfect unison. Never seen the like. These two are worthy of all the Mau hype, more family than pets. Having two that care so much for each other is a treat.
They sound amazing. Thank you for sharing!
I wanted a Mau but couldn’t afford the price on Social Security income. I wanted a companion for my young service dog, a Standard Poodle (one reason l couldn’t afford a “real” Mau) and loves cats. I turned to a rescue cat thru Pet Finder and was hooked up with a prospect an hour away. We met, Emma met, Toby came home with us. He marked exactly like a Mau, has the skin flap and all the traits described, except his eyes stem all that green. They own more toward the yellow spectrum so if he’s got any Mau it’s mixed in with???? He’s  just 6 1/2 months old. He had no fear, wrestles with my dog and he wins. He’s the Bronze version of he’s any Mau at all but at this point, only 3 days into the family of Emma & me and Toby he’s a keeper. Decided to name him King Toby Faux EMau. Big name for a little cat. We went to the vet with sniffles from the shelter and he weighs in at 7# already. Found out he was brought home by a little boy from his Dad visit and promptly dropped off at the shelter upon the child’s return home to mom from North Carolina ending up in Oklahoma. Poor little boy but lucky me and Emma! He stays Mau or no Mau.
I have a rescue who we believe to be an Egyptian Mau. We got her at about three years of age, some 14 years ago.  She was about to be put outside before a blizzard, so we took her sight unseen.  We like to say she’s related to Cleopatra’s cat, Mau Mau.  She is very vocal and has a large vocabulary.  She loves sleeping on the back of the sofa when my husband is watching TV.  She’s very intelligent and very particular about her food.  We love her very much.
I have a 6 month old Smoke Colored Female Egyptian Mau. She weigh 6.5 lbs and she is 14″ Long, Her Name is Apple The Egyptian Mau
Lovely! Thank you for sharing.
Our 3 year old Egyptian Mau was also a rescue and has been such a delight to our family. She is so friendly and greets everyone that visits with affection. She has so much energy and plays with our teenagers, running after them like a dog would. She plays soccer with her toys and is an excellent ball dribbler! Her favorite thing to do is run full speed over our upper story log house beams to then sit in the window and watch birds. She is very intelligent, can open doors, is very chatty and snuggles with her family daily! What a wonderful cat!
Sounds like a delight! I’d like to see her dribble a ball. 🙂
Thank you for sharing!
I saved my Egyptian Mau from a shelter, he was only 2 months old & curled up in a ball, I didn’t know what breed he was.  He is now 8 months old & is the sweetest most loving cat I’ve ever had.  He has all the markings & he’s super fast & agile & fetches, & climbs & leaps.  He loves to play in water & he curls up in a ball into my neck every night & purrs.  I’m delighted to have him, he’s very intuitive & has helped me through so many difficulties, whenever I’m sad he crawls up in my chest & purrs, what an amazing animal!!
We have an Egyptian Mau, but what amazes me is he’s a rescue. This article is him to a tee. He is so friendly and not shy of strangers at all. He is very verbal and never fights baths. One difference: he is huge! He has the scarab beetle marking on his forehead and the most gorgeous green eyes. His vet asked to take a pic because of how gorgeous they are. We love him and his sweet-tempered personality. He is a very sweet cat!!
Smart, friendly and so playful. Maus are a delight. I have had two and loved them both so much.
I have an orange Egyptian Mau.  His markings are very distinct and slightly different from our grey tabby. Almost alien looking with his big ears, triangle shaped face and almond eyes set somwhat apart.   We have never had a cat with such a love for playing in the water!  He is quick as lightning and can jump and bounce from one object to another in a split second.  He talks all the time, acknowledges when we walk into a room or if we call him.  He was my birthday present and we were hoping he would be an “exercise program” for our older, chunky cat.  If he tries to play with us like he does with the other cat, just by saying NO sternly, he will stop.  His preference is to be with us at all times, sleeping or playing.  He knows lots of words and his interaction is so endearing we can’t ever imagine being without him.
I had Buddee a silver Egyptian Mau for 19 years. Just died Dec 2, 2021.
My heart is still broken.
We lost our Mau too. She made it to 20 and passed peacefully
My first ever cats adopted by chance cause they chose me. I grew up with large breed Rottweilers. The transition was different but these personalities, playfulness and serious demand for affection has changed my life. All my guets greet my cats and they have their own individual friends selected from my freinds. They bring their cat friends over to come eat. I never knew cats cuddle. They destroyed all cat stereotypes. They are my world.
Note
THEY SHED A LOT
EAT A LOT
PLAY A LOT
THEY DO SPEAK SO PLEASE GREET OR ACKNOWLEDGE WHEN YOUR CAT ENTERS THE ROOM
THEY ARE INTELLIGENT ENCOURAGE IT
Lovely comment. Thank you for sharing!
I live in Michigan, Coldwater. Where do you find them? I’m just learning about them. Have had himmy’s and other cats a long time.
I have a beautiful one named lilo and gave birth to five beautiful kittens in the summer
EGIPTIAN MAU CATS ARE SO INTELIGENT THAT MINE COULD OPEN A FRIDGE AS WELL AS DOOR OF A ROOM.BUT SAD TO SAY HE FALLED FROM FIFTH FLOOR AND HE IS NO MORE NOW
So sad to hear of his demise.  I also had a Mau who was exceptionally bright.  Mine is also now running free in an astral plane.  Hopefully yours and mine have met and are playing together.
I got mine from a divorced couple who left town. I didn’t know of her origins other than a Tabby from the pound. She totally blew my mind with her incredible intelligence she spoke in complete sentences and her affection was unlimited.
Just found out she is a rare breed. Amazing creature everyone should be so lucky as me
Wonderful breed, they are very sweet and afectioned, also very clean.
They love to be petted!  They are not a nervous breed, on the contrary I find them very calm.
A pleasure to own!  I am very lucky!!
What a sweet kitty!  She is very strong and fast.  She requires much interactive play.  I have a 22 year old cat who does NOT want to play with her.
Hilarious! I can say the same exact thing except our other cat is 21!
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: MDavidova, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 29, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
You’ll notice the Egyptian Mau right away because of their stunning silvery coats and gorgeous eyes. You might wonder just what this cat is all about. Rare and beautiful, the Egyptian Mau takes on the notable spots of the tabby cat, being one of the only purebreds around who solely sports this pattern.
Height:
8–10 inches
Weight:
7–9 pounds
Lifespan:
13–15 years
Colors:
Silver, bronze, smoke, solid black, blue silver, blue spotted, blue smoke, solid blue
Suitable for:
Apartment living, families with older children, most lifestyles
Temperament:
Strong-minded, active, fearless, playful
You’re probably wondering just what to expect from an Egyptian Mau. After all, you’ll want to know if you are even compatible before making that final decision. Let’s explore this lovely breed to see what you can expect once you bring them home.

Finding an Egyptian Mau kitten from a reputable breeder might be a challenge. There is currently one listed on the CFA website1 and a handful of breeders with their own websites. Due to the fact they are harder to find than more popular breeds like the Maine Coon and Ragdoll, they will probably be more expensive. But remember that reputable breeders will provide an adoptable kitten from a strong genetic family line, a health certificate, and vaccinations. This is worth the price!

The Egyptian Mau cat breed is moderately active and intelligent. They will be playful when the mood strikes. They’re incredibly alert, which can make them good hunters. You might find them getting into mischief, like knocking things off of the counters or getting into anything that looks like a fun string to chase.
While these cats aren’t necessarily calm, they may come for a quick cat nap or rub up against you for petting. They are generally very interactive with people, no matter what kind of mood they’re in. One thing is for sure—they have no issue letting you know how they feel.
These cats are also very vocal, letting you know when they want attention, need food, or become upset. These vocalizations can help you explore your cat’s unique quirks and preferences, but frequent meowing won’t work for every family.
If you’re interested in a calmer, quieter feline, you might want to veer away from this cat—regardless of how much their looks strike your fancy. If the talking doesn’t bother you, you might find amusement in their kitty language.
Egyptian Mau cats are very bonded to their families. However, the cat can be very wary of strangers. They tend to be somewhat reserved. If you have company come over to visit, they might flee from sight rather than seek attention.
They prefer to stay back and observe until they are comfortable with the situation. If you plan on growing your family, they may not respond to a newcomer—such as a baby—with open arms. It takes them a while to adjust to change.
For this reason, it takes a toll on an Egyptian Mau to be rehomed. Always make sure that you’re able to carry on the commitment when choosing this breed. They can be very shy, aloof, and sometimes flat-out uninterested in environmental changes.
Even though they might snap their nose at the baby or run and hide from a toddler, that doesn’t mean that they all share the same sentiment with children aged 6 years and older. By this age, their energy levels mesh, and the children have already learned to respect the animal’s boundaries.
The Egyptian Mau is fearless. They won’t be scared of your dog, even if it’s enormous. They won’t be the ones to run and hide under a chair or escape into another room. If they feel threatened, they will stand their ground.
Because of this, it’s important only to have cat-friendly dogs around. Egyptian Mau cats won’t tolerate annoyances or poor behavior, which might upset the wrong dog. Take precautions and always make sure your animals respect each other’s boundaries. These cats can get along fantastically with other furry friends. Some might even prefer having another animal to play, cuddle, and nap with.
While they love having a companion around, they work in homes as the only pets, too. As long as you have the right means of stimulating their minds, they won’t have an issue. It’s much easier to integrate your Egyptian Mau into a multi-pet household than to add a new pet later.
Having any cat around smaller animals that they might mistake as prey can be a huge risk to take. Always make sure you take the proper measures to separate any tiny pets from your cat.

Because cats are obligate carnivores, they need protein over any other ingredient in their diet. In the wild, feral cats will eat nothing but meat and drink water. So, even though it won’t be the only two components in your cat’s diet, protein is essential.
As kittens, your Egyptian Mau will need the necessary amino acids, fatty acids, vitamins, and minerals. They will benefit most from a calorie-rich, nutrient-dense dry kibble—though you can add in wet food as a topper.
While the Egyptian Mau doesn’t have any particular food sensitivities, that doesn’t mean you might not run into issues. These cats are prone to gastrointestinal issues—some of which can be diet-related. Always look for cues that their food might not agree with them, such as bloating, gassiness, or diarrhea.
Because Egyptian Mau’s are prone to mouth and gum disease, it’s especially important that you don’t offer only a wet food diet. Wet food has been linked to dental deterioration and plaque buildup. The kibble crunch is important to clean their teeth.
When it comes to exercise, cats generally take care of this need on their own. That’s especially true of the Egyptian Mau since they love playtime anyway. These cats do very well romping around independently, and some might not even need someone to partake.
You might find them chasing plastic milk rings, hair bands, and other objects you have in your home. They also benefit from toys and scratching posts to avoid damage to your furniture.
In total, cats only need about 15 to 20 minutes of exercise per day to stay happy and healthy.
When it comes to basic concepts like litter training, the Egyptian Mau will take to it almost immediately. A few introductions to the box, and they should have it down in no time. However, if you’re having a little bit of a problem, you could initially restrict their space to get better acclimated to the environment. Once you feel like they have the hang of things, you can slowly introduce them to the rest of the household.

A post shared by Egyptian maus Elli & Nemo (@ellipse_mau)

The Egyptian Mau needs next to no grooming from their human. They’re fortunate enough to have sleek, short coats that self-maintain. You can still brush your Egyptian Mau, though. They tend to respond well to touching and enjoy the bonding that comes with it.
If your cat is particularly grimy, you can bathe them, but don’t do it more than once a month. It’s really unnecessary, but sometimes they might need extra help to stay in tip-top shape.
Overall, the Egyptian Mau is a hardy breed with little to worry about regarding health. That doesn’t mean all kittens will age without issues. In this breed, specific ailments might arise more commonly.

While there aren’t many differences in the personality of a male and female Egyptian Mau, there are some notable things that could depend on gender.
Female Egyptian Maus tend to be slightly more aloof with strangers and more particular about whom they want their affection from. Males tend to be more hyper and playful than their female counterparts.
Females might also become very set in their ways. You might find that once she has her mind made up, there is no changing it. So, if she rejects a new playmate or decides she doesn’t like your husband—you probably won’t get her to budge on her stance. Males are usually bigger than females by a couple of pounds. Females tend to be a little lankier and light-boned. This is typical of most felines, not just Egyptian Mau cats.

The average gestation period for a feline is roughly 64 days. An Egyptian Mau, however, goes much longer—a whopping 73 days! They have the most prolonged pregnancies of any other domesticated cat breed.
One of the trademark traits of an Egyptian Mau cat is its adorable spotted pattern. While many cats can sport a spotted tabby coat, this cat is one of the only purebred cats with this coat type.
One surefire way to know if you have an Egyptian Mau is their intensely vivid eyes—called “gooseberry green.” If you look at both the gooseberry fruit and the eyes of an Egyptian Mau, you won’t wonder how they came up with the comparison. It’s almost exact.

If you’re serious about adding an Egyptian Mau to your household, remember to check the authenticity of your selected breeder. Remember, you can always check rescues and shelters for this remarkable feline, too.
Featured Image Credit: MDavidova, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
The Egyptian Mau has a reputation for being extremely fast on their feet. They look a lot much like cats that were found in ancient Egypt and which are depicted on the tomb walls of Pharaohs. These athletic cats have been recorded at speeds of thirty miles an hour. Not only this their long well-muscled back legs allow Maus to jump to great heights with the greatest of ease. Over the years the Egyptian Mau has become a popular companion thanks to their naturally occurring exotic spotted coats and their kind loyal and affectionate natures as such they have found their way into the hearts and homes of many people in the UK and elsewhere in the world.
It is thought that Egyptian Maus are descendants of cats that were around in Egypt in ancient times and their resemblance to these cats is striking. As such they are thought to be one of the most ancient breeds on the planet. Cats were revered in Ancient Egypt and were often depicted in artwork sitting next to Pharaohs and on their tomb walls.
Breeders began showing an interest in the Egyptian Mau during the 20th century but World War II had a serious impact on the breed which saw their numbers fall dangerously low. At the end of the war dedicated breeders in Europe Canada America as well as other countries began carefully and selectively breeding the Egyptian Mau to save them from extinction. The problem was that breeders had only a small gene pool to draw from as such they were obliged to use other breeds to rescue the Egyptian Mau.
However Egyptian Maus did not arrive in the UK until the end of the 1990s when the breed was imported by a lady called Melissa Bateson and although the breed had been popular in the States for quite some time having been recognised by the Cat Fanciers' Federation in the late sixties the Egyptian Mau was not given full championship status in the UK until 2006 when the breed was recognised by the GCCF.
Today these lovely cats boast a large fan base in many countries of the world and for good reason. They are the only domestic cat with a naturally occurring spotted coat and are known to be loving loyal and intelligent cats to share a home with.
Their ears are medium to large in size and broader at the base being slightly pointed at the tips and set nicely apart on a cat's head. Some Egyptian Maus have tufted ears whereas others do not. They have large almond shaped ears that are set under a level brow and which boast having a slight slant on the lower lid. Eyes are a bright gooseberry green and as previously mentioned cats have a line that runs parallel on either side of their noses which adds to their "foreign" look.
Egyptian Maus have moderately long elegant bodies that boast being muscular and hard to the touch. They have quite prominent shoulder blades that are set high and cats have a loose flap of skin that runs from their flanks to the knee on their back legs. They have elegant legs that are nicely in proportion to their bodies with their back ones being longer than their front legs. Feet are dainty and small being almost rounded in shape. Their tails are moderately long and quite thick at the base before tapering gently to the tip.
The Egyptian Mau's cheeks have "mascara" lines which start at the corner of their eyes before contouring their cheeks. A second line curves upwards so it virtually meets a cat's ears. Their bodies are spotted randomly with large small or medium sized spots that can be just about any shape and size. Bellies are also spotted and cats have one or even more broken necklaces around their necks. The markings on a cat's shoulders can be both stripes and spots.
Their legs are heavily barred or they can be spotted with one leg not matching the other which is acceptable under the GCCF breed standard. The marking on their upper back legs and haunches can be a transition from stripes and spots to bars on a cat's lower legs. Their tails are very well banded and boasts having a dark tip. The accepted breed colours are as follows:
The Egyptian Mau boasts having a lovely personality. They are playful intelligent cats that learn new things very quickly. They are also known for having a real sense of humour which is another reason they are such fun to share a home with. Unlike many other cats they love playing in water and will paddle in ponds if they get the chance to. They also love watching taps drip and will dive in a sink full of water with no hesitation at all. They are energetic cats that boast an incredible turn of speed. They can also jump to great heights and enjoy nothing more than to be able to look down on the world below from a high perch.
Egyptian Maus thrive on human company and don't particularly like being left on their own for long periods of time. As such they are a good choice for households where at least one person stays at home when everyone else is out. They get on well with older children but can be a little "off" when they are around toddlers who tend to be a little too boisterous for their liking.
Egyptian Maus can be quite vocal and boast having quite a good range of ways of letting their owners know their feelings. They also tend to wag their tails and stamp their feet when they are unhappy. They love playing games and are natural hunters. However unless it's safe for a cat to go outside it's best to keep an Egyptian Mau as an indoor pet which they do adapt to very well. However they need to be given lots of interactive toys for them to be truly happy if they are not allowed to go outside for safety reasons.
Like a lot of other breeds the Mau likes a routine and doesn't particularly like it when this changes for any reason. They like to be fed at the same time of the day and don't appreciate it when things get changed around the home.
The Egyptian Mau is an intelligent cat and one that as previously mentioned learns new things very quickly. They love playing interactive games which includes hunting and chasing down a toy. They also boast having a ton of energy and as such when kept as indoor pets they need to be given lots of mental stimulation to keep them occupied and to prevent boredom from setting in. This includes building high platforms for cats to jump up to so they can look down on things below. Hiding food and toys around a house is another great way of keeping an Egyptian Mau busy. If they get bored cats tend to become destructive around the home which is their way of relieving any stress they may be experiencing.
Egyptian Maus with their outgoing affectionate personalities are the perfect companion. However they are happier in households where the children are that much older and who therefore know how to behave around cats. With this said any interaction between younger children and cats should always be well supervised by an adult to make sure things stay nice and calm. Younger children need to be taught how to behave around cats and when to leave them alone.
They also get on well with dogs they have grown up with in a household. However care has to be taken when introducing an Egyptian to a dog they don't already know just in case the dog does not get on with their feline counterparts. They generally get on with most animals but it's always wiser to keep a close eye on any cat when they are around smaller pets because their natural instinct to "hunt" might get the better of them with disastrous results.
The average life expectancy of an Egyptian Mau is between 13 and 16 years when properly cared for and fed an appropriate good quality diet to suit their ages.
The Egyptian Mau is known to suffer from a few hereditary health issues which are worth knowing about if you are planning share your home with one of these intelligent high energy cats. The conditions that seem to affect the breed the most include the following:
The Egyptian Mau needs to be groomed on a regular basis to make sure their coats and skin are kept in top condition. On top of this cats need to be fed good quality food that meets all their nutritional needs throughout their lives which is especially true of kittens and older cats.
Egyptian Maus boast having short close lying coats and as such they are low maintenance on the grooming front. A weekly brush and wipe over with a chamois leather is all it takes to keep their coats in good condition with a nice sheen on it. Like other breeds they tend to shed the most in the Spring and then again in the Autumn when more frequent brushing is usually necessary to keep on top of things.
It's also important to check a cat's ears on a regular basis and to clean them when necessary. If too much wax is allowed to build up it can lead to a painful infection which can be hard to clear up. In short prevention is often easier than cure with ear infections. Cats often suffer from ear mites which can be a real problem which is why it's so important to check their ears on a regular basis which means catching the problem early.
Cats that are kept as indoor pets need to be given lots of things to do and places to hide when they want to bearing in mind that the Egyptian Mau loves to climb up high so they can look down on things below from their high perches. They also need to have lots of places they can snuggle up for a snooze when the mood takes them because like other cats they love napping throughout the day.
If you get a Mau kitten from a breeder they would give you a feeding schedule and it's important to stick to the same routine feeding the same kitten food to avoid any tummy upsets. You can change a kitten's diet but this needs to be done very gradually always making sure they don't develop any digestive upsets and if they do it's best to put them back on their original diet and to discuss things with the vet before attempting to change it again.
Older cats are not known to be fussy eaters but this does not mean they can be given a lower quality diet. It's best to feed a mature cat several times a day making sure it's good quality food that meets all their nutritional requirements which is especially important as cats get older. It's also essential to keep an eye on a cat's weight because if they start to put on too much it can have a serious impact on their overall health and wellbeing. Like other breeds the Mau needs access to fresh clean water at all times.
If you are looking to buy an Egyptian Mau you would need to pay upwards of £300 for a well-bred pedigree kitten and you may need to register your interest with breeders because few kittens are registered with the GCCF every year. The cost of insuring a male 3-year-old Egyptian Mau in northern England would be £15.64 a month for basic cover but for a lifetime policy this would set you back £25.17 a month (quote as of Sept 2016). When insurance companies calculate a pet's premium they factor in several things which includes where you live in the UK a cat's age and whether or not they have been neutered or spayed among other things.
When it comes to food costs you need to buy the best quality food whether wet or dry making sure it suits the different stages of a cat’s life. This would set you back between £15 - £20 a month. On top of all of this you need to factor in veterinary costs if you want to share your home with an Egyptian Mau and this includes their initial vaccinations their annual boosters the cost of neutering or spaying a cat when the time is right and their yearly health checks all of which quickly adds up to over £500 a year.
As a rough guide the average cost to keep and care for an Egyptian Mau would be between £30 to £50 a month depending on the level of insurance cover you opt to buy for your cat but this does not include the initial cost of buying a well-bred kitten.
--------------------------------------------------
The Egyptians have always been interested in cats, and it is believed that in 1953 a noblewoman left Egypt with a tabby cat, returning to Italy.
Later, another cat was also brought to Italy and the pair were mated. The Egyptian Mau is a natural breed.
In 1956, a kitten of the pair was brought to the United States and the Egyptian Mau was developed. A breeding program was started in the United States. The breed Egyptian Mau was recognized in 1958 in the United States and 1992 in Europe.
This is a medium-sized, long, athletic cat that is well muscled.  It weighs between 3 to 5kg. The Mau is heavily muscled and strong. It has a triangular-shaped head with large almond-shaped eyes.
The coat of the Mau is medium in length and is glossy and soft. There are spots on the coat but the cat is particularly well known for the dark stripe that runs from its head to its tail. The coat comes in several different colors such as silver, black, tan and blue. All Maus have green eyes.
These cats are known for being loyal and friendly and they love warm weather and enjoying a spot in the sun.
They are talkative cats too and also love to sit on high perches and survey the world from these high positions. They are excellent climbers and you’ll need to supply these cats with a climbing tree. Its an intelligent breed and he will get along well with children in the home as well as be friendly towards other pets.
These are social cats with their own human family but the Egyptian Mau does tend to be a bit reserved around strangers.
They make excellent pets and companions and if he is happy, you’ll hear him making little noises to express his contentment.
What also makes him so attractive as a pet is that he is a short-coated cat that is considered to be low maintenance.
Before you decide to take on any animal as a pet and before you bring the Egyptian Mau into your home, do thorough research on this rare cat breed. If you do decide to take him in, find out all you can on how to provide for him so that he receives the best care and love in your home.
Egyptian Maus are strong, robust cats and they don't have any particular health problems.
Obesity is a major disease with this cat and all other cats and it's worth noting, as obesity contributes to a great number of illnesses in cats. Excess weight can lead to diabetes and arthritis and well as other life-threatening diseases.
Two things that play an important role in his health are ensuring that he has access to excellent, nutritious, meaty food, as cats are carnivores.
You also want to ensure that he gets all his vaccines and de-wormings. If you notice that your cat seems to be under the weather, get him to the vet as soon as possible.
The beautiful coat of the Egyptian Mau is easy to care for and a weekly brushing will ensure it stays shiny and healthy.
If he will let you, try to look inside his mouth to ensure the teeth and gums are healthy.
Remember, if there are any grooming activities for this cat that you feel you can’t cope with, professional groomers will do it for you.
Provide your Egyptian Mau with a climbing tree and scratching post as the cat loves to jump and climb.
He is an active, intelligent cat and needs to be stimulated with exciting toys, particularly when you’re not around to entertain him.
Cats such as the Egyptian Mau are clean and they want their litterbox to be kept clean. Invest in scoop and rake and rid the litter box every day of cat droppings. There also comes a time when you will have to replace all the sand or grit as well.
It will be fantastic if you can provide this cat with a water fountain and a type of pool as they love playing in water.
Make sure your Mau has constant access to fresh, cool drinking water.
--------------------------------------------------
The Egyptian Mau is a breed of cat known for their unique spotted coat and playful, friendly temperament. They are considered one of the oldest domesticated cat breeds and are believed to have originated in Egypt. In this article, we will discuss the Egyptian Mau's temperament, lifespan, shedding, and kittens.
The Egyptian Mau is a playful and energetic breed of cat that loves to play and interact with their owners. They are also known for their friendly and affectionate nature, and make great companions for families and individuals alike. They are highly intelligent cats that enjoy solving puzzles and learning new tricks.
The Egyptian Mau is a social breed that gets along well with children and other pets. They are also known for their vocalizations, which include a unique chirping sound that is unlike any other breed of cat.
The Egyptian Mau has a relatively long lifespan, with an average lifespan of 12-16 years. With proper care and nutrition, some Egyptian Mau cats have been known to live well into their late teens or early twenties.
The Egyptian Mau has a short, fine coat that requires minimal grooming. They are low to moderate shedders and require occasional brushing to remove loose hair. Additionally, the Egyptian Mau may benefit from occasional baths to keep their coat in top condition.
Egyptian Mau kittens are known for their playful and affectionate personalities. They are highly social and require plenty of attention and socialization to become well-adjusted adult cats.
Egyptian Mau kittens are usually ready to go to their new homes at around 12-16 weeks of age. They are typically litter-trained, vaccinated, and microchipped. When adopting an Egyptian Mau kitten, it is important to find a reputable breeder and ensure that the kitten's parents have been health screened for any genetic health issues.
--------------------------------------------------
