The English Foxhound is one of the four foxhound breeds of dog. It is a cousin of the American Foxhound. They are scent hounds, bred to hunt foxes by scent.
The breed standards' guidelines for showing English Foxhounds requires them to be 20–27 inches (51–69 cm) tall at the withers.[1] The skull is thick and the muzzle is long. The legs are muscular, straight-boned, and the paws are rounded, almost cat-like. The English Foxhound comes in any hound colour.[2]
The English Foxhound has been bred for over two hundred years, with the stud books dating back before 1800.[1]
During the British rule in India, English Foxhounds were exported to India for the purpose of jackal coursing,[3] though due to the comparatively hotter weather, they were rarely long lived.[4] Foxhounds were preferred for this purpose over greyhounds, as the former was not as fast, and could thus provide a longer, more sporting chase.[5]
Studbooks for the English foxhound have been kept since the 18th century.[6]
--------------------------------------------------
The English Foxhound is a large, gentle hound that is as comfortable in a family home as in a hunt kennel. It is an energetic and enthusiastic companion, developed in the sixteenth century in response to growing interest in fox hunting around this time. Today, it is known as an intelligent, easy-going dog that gets along well with other dogs and children, though it still retains its natural prey drive, which can be an issue with smaller pets. Most cannot be left unattended, except in the most secure of gardens, as they will ramble in search of scent trails worth pursuing.
Though the Foxhound will cope better with an owner who is absent during the working day than many other breeds, working owners must be prepared to provide walks once or twice a day to satisfy the dog’s need for exercise. The breed has a loud, baying bark that can prove to be a good deterrent to intruders, but is generally sociable with strangers once introduced. However, excessive barking is a potential problem, and one which must be borne in mind for city dwellers. English Foxhounds are generally easy to care for, and need little grooming. They have very few health problems, and have an average life expectancy of 11–13 years.
When deer hunting, the leisure pursuit of choice of the aristocracy for centuries, started to take its toll on wild deer populations in the sixteenth century, fox hunting began to gain in popularity. Unfortunately, the large breeds traditionally used for hunting deer (e.g., the Scottish Deerhound) had neither the stamina nor the agility to pursue this new quarry over the countryside. This situation resulted in the early development of the Foxhound as a mixture of Greyhound, Fox Terrier, and Bulldog lines. The result was a strong dog with a combination of speed, tenacity, and the ability to pursue its prey for five to seven hours without need of a break, up to two or three times in a single week.
The breed began to be exported around the world as early as the seventeenth century, and large numbers were brought to the United States at an early stage in its history to allow colonists continue hunting as a hobby. It was here that it was used in combination with other hound breeds, including French Foxhounds, such as the Anglo-Français, to develop the lighter American Foxhound. George Washington himself was among those involved in this breeding programme, and this newer breed quickly overtook the English Foxhound in terms of popularity in the US. Today, the breed is more frequently seen in show rings in America, while on this side of the Atlantic it has retained its place as a hunter, and is occasionally kept as a pet. While also shown in UK competitions, this is a relatively recent phenomenon. It gained early entry into the Kennel Club register in the 1880s, and was also one of the first breeds to be recognised by the AKC in 1909.
A well-proportioned English Foxhound should have a noble appearance and dignified carriage, exuding courage and endurance. Its head is quite flat, with the crown in parallel to the strong, broad muzzle. The mouth has a clean scissor bite, and the well-developed lips are somewhat heavy with moderate flews. The ears are wedge-shaped, thick (to cope with scratches and cuts while navigating hedgerows), and lie flat to the head from their high position on the skull. The almond-shaped eyes are brown in colour.
The breed has a strong, wide back and neck, and carries an appreciable amount of muscle throughout. The ribs are well-sprung and the chest is broad and deep, although the abdomen does not have a marked tuck. The limbs are long and straight, moderately well-muscled, and end in relatively small paws that are often described as being cat-like. The tail is set high, and is carried below horizontal when relaxed, with a slight upward curl – it is thick at the base and tapers. When excited, the tail is held rigidly upright.
The Foxhound has a short, hard and coarse coat that may be almost any colour, with very variable markings. Males are usually 60–64 cm (24–25 in) tall at the withers, and females 58–62 cm (23–24 in) in height. Weights are very variable, but an average range for males would be 28–34 kg (62–75 lb), and for females 25–32 kg (55–70 lb).
Foxhounds are courageous and determined dogs in the field, characteristics that can also be seen when they are kept as pets. Whether taking their owner for a walk in pursuit of a scent trail, or scrambling to retrieve a nugget of food from under the sofa, the Foxhound is not easily deterred from something that attracts his attention. For this reason, the breed is often described as stubborn, and they do need a firm and consistent owner who is able to take control and redirect them when needed. They are very versatile dogs, and although they need space and should not be considered suitable apartment dogs, with a couple of half-hour walks each day and access to a good-sized garden, most are contented and easy to manage household companions.
Being a pack hound, they are extremely social animals, and get along very well with other dogs. Similarly, they are at their best when part of a large family, and their adaptable nature means they can transition from energetic exercise partner for the adults in the home to soppy playmate for the children with ease. Foxhounds can be very vocal, and will be sure to join in any canine chorus within earshot, and this, coupled with their tendency to bark at the sight of strangers, means they make excellent watch dogs.
As mentioned above, English Foxhounds can be stubborn dogs, and training takes time and patience. One area in which they are particularly resistant to training is recall, meaning that they can never be trusted off the lead in open spaces. The sight or smell of another animal will quickly prove irresistible, and the Foxhound will happily lose itself in pursuit for hours on end.Microchipping of all Foxhounds is essential for this reason, as many eventually turn up an astonishing distance from home.
The breed’s vocal nature means that nuisance barking is a frequently reported problem. This can be managed, to some extent, by training them to “speak” and “cease” on command. This takes a good deal of patience to master, but can be a very valuable tool.
The English Foxhound is a very healthy breed, and most individuals are never afflicted by the conditions listed below. However, as for all pedigrees, some problems are more common in the breed than in the general dog population.
Congenital deafness is occasionally seen in Foxhound puppies, and usually becomes obvious from around six weeks of age as reduced responsiveness in affected pups. While deafness is a catastrophic disability for a working pack dog, pet Foxhounds can learn to adapt to this condition, and can live full and happy lives in the right home.
This condition has no identifiable cause in the majority of cases, and causes episodes of involuntary muscle activity and altered consciousness. Most people associate the classic grand mal presentation with epilepsy, with its dramatic flailing limbs, loss of bladder control, and loss of consciousness, but epilepsy frequently takes the petit mal form.
This milder presentation may appear as lameness, facial tics, excess salivation, or compulsive fly-catching behaviour. The frequency and severity of these episodes determines the need for treatment, with dogs experiencing more than one grand mal event per month usually being started on anticonvulsant medications.
This is an uncommon cause of kidney failure, but has been reported in related English Foxhounds. Amyloidosis describes the build-up of inflammatory proteins within the matrix of the kidney, compressing the surrounding tissues and causing loss of function.
While kidney failure due to amyloidosis is usually a slowly progressive condition, Foxhounds affected by this form of the disease all appear to deteriorate very quickly, with most dying within one week of the onset of clinical signs.
This is not a condition likely to be seen in pet Foxhounds, and has only been reported in pack dogs. It involves a dramatic loss of muscular coordination, is usually seen in dogs aged between two and seven years, and is thought to be associated with feeding a diet consisting largely of offal. It has also been described in working Beagles.
Some English Foxhounds are born with abnormally small, non-functioning eyes. This is an obvious defect that can be noticed by breeders and prospective buyers alike. Either one or both eyes may be affected.
This is a degenerative condition affecting the spinal cord, and resulting in back pain and some degree of hindlimb lameness. It may be seen from middle age, with characteristic new bone formation in the lower back visible on X-ray examination. Unfortunately, there is no cure for the condition, and affected dogs usually need long-term management with painkillers and restricted exercise.
A disorder in which the ability of tiny white blood cells, called platelets, to plug holes in blood vessel walls is reduced. This results in a tendency to bleed profusely after minor trauma, which may first be noticed as lameness after vigorous exercise due to bleeding within joints or muscles.
English Foxhounds can adapt to a range of exercise regimes, but as might be expected, they do best with a minimum of one to two hours per day. Lead walking is adequate, but they can be far more energetic than this if allowed.
They are ideal companions for enthusiastic long distance runners and hikers, and are more than capable of completing a marathon training programme with all but the most elite of athletes. They need space, and the freedom to frolic around a decent-sized garden on a daily basis.
The breed has a very easy to care for coat. It is short, hard, and dense, and does not allow dirt to cling on easily. Weekly brushing is usually enough to keep the coat clean and to remove dead hair, and even caked-on mud is easily removed in this manner once it has dried. Bathing is rarely required, and should only be done when absolutely necessary, as it can strip essential oils from the hair and skin.
Foxhounds have strong nails, and unless walked on paved surfaces, may need them trimmed every few weeks. This can be done at home with a good-quality nail clippers designed for dogs, once the owner takes care to avoid the sensitive “quick” containing nerves and blood vessels that runs down the centre of each nail. Tooth brushing is an excellent way to avoid dental problems later in life. This should be introduced to the Foxhound as a young pup, and needs to be done at least every other day for maximum benefit.
While not household names, within the hunting fraternity, several well-known English Foxhounds are felt to exemplify the breed standard:
In working packs, Foxhounds are occasionally mixed with other breeds to make best use of their various strengths over the local terrain.
Copyright © 2016 - 2019 DogZone.com - Privacy | Authors | Contact
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The English Foxhound is a traditional British breed with a history that dates back to the 16th century. They were originally bred for hunting foxes, a popular sport among the British nobility. The Foxhound’s primary purpose was to pick up the scent of a fox and then lead a chase that could last for hours or even days. To fulfill this role, the breed was selectively bred for endurance, a keen sense of smell, and a willingness to work in a pack. Foxhunting with hounds was outlawed in the United Kingdom in 2005, but the breed is still used for drag hunting and trail hunting, where the hounds follow an artificial scent rather than a live fox.
The English Foxhound may suffer from amyloidosis (renal), brachygnathism, cerebellar ataxia (hound), epilepsy, hip dysplasia, prognathism, and renal disease. The breed is susceptible to bloat, also known as gastric dilation volvulus (GDV). This is a life-threatening condition that can come on suddenly, so it’s important to know the warning signs and get an affected dog immediate veterinary care.
English Foxhounds are friendly, sociable dogs that get along well with other dogs and people. They are energetic and require a lot of exercise to keep them happy and healthy. While they are generally good-natured, their hunting instincts can make them determined and single-minded, especially when they pick up a scent. They are typically not aggressive but they can be stubborn and a bit challenging to train. Their natural inclination towards pack behavior makes them better suited to homes where they won't be left alone for long periods.
English Foxhounds are considered a 'rare breed' in the United States, with fewer than 50 new registrations each year with the American Kennel Club (AKC).They have an excellent sense of smell, second only to the Bloodhound.Despite their energetic nature and stamina in the field, English Foxhounds are known to be quite relaxed and calm in the home.The English Foxhound is the predecessor to the American Foxhound, a breed developed in the United States for similar purposes.
Doi:10.1002/9781119540687   https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/english-foxhound/  https://www.ukcdogs.com/english-foxhound https://www.petmd.com/dog/breeds/c_dg_english_foxhound https://www.fci.be/Nomenclature/Standards/159g06-en.pdf
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
The English Foxhound is a healthy breed with very few congenital or hereditary illnesses. The breed was developed back in 1750 by mixing several kinds of hounds with other breeds to get a dog that could track a fox. They are a medium sized dog about 25 inches tall and 55 to 75 pounds. They come in many color combinations and they are built for endurance rather than speed. With their large brown eyes and gentle expression, the English Foxhound looks sweet and friendly. Although they were bred for hunting fox, they are also excellent companion pets and watchdogs. However, they can be noisy because they like to bay.
In the middle of the 1700s, fox hunters wanted a dog that could track and chase a fox for long periods of time. To do this, they crossed a variety of hounds such as the Bloodhound, Deerhound, Greyhound, and Staghound with the Fox Terrier, Whippet, and Bulldog to create the English Foxhound. At that time, this was a sport for the wealthy men who became more interested in running with their English Foxhounds than hunting foxes. They started breeding them in certain color combinations and markings to create attractive packs that contained 50 hounds or more. This became a popular pastime and then a business as more and more people of royalty began to buy these dogs for packs. They were brought to the United States by colonists from Britain in the 17th century. After the English Foxhound came to the United States in the late 1700s, American breeders crossed them with other dogs to create an American Foxhound. The English Foxhound was officially listed by the American Kennel Club in 1909 but is still not popular as a pet or show dog. They are one of four Foxhound breeds, which include the American Foxhound, Dumfriesshire Foxhound, and the Black and Tan Virginia Foxhound. They do make good house pets but are still happier being a part of a working or hunting pack and they get along well with other dogs. They are rare in the United States because the American Foxhound is much more popular. Some of the more famous owners of English Foxhounds include George Washington and Thomas Lord Fairfax from Virginia.
The English Foxhound is a careful balance of good looks, talent, and stamina. With straight, muscular legs, a strong, level back, and deep chest, they are ready for hunting or running any time you want. They have a long neck, full sized, flat head, large nose with big nostrils, pronounced brow, low lying rounded ears, complete scissor bite, and medium sized brown or hazel eyes. The coat is short, shiny, weatherproof, and dense in any color combination of hound colors. These colors include white, tan, and black. However, there is also a color combination of white and yellow and just plain white as well. Their feet are rounded and cat-like with a strong horn and knuckles while their legs should be strong and straight. The English Foxhound has a long tail that is carried upright but usually not curled over the back. In addition, they are shorter than the other Foxhounds at only about 25 inches tall.
The English Foxhound only needs to be brushed once a week with a rubber curry brush or hound mitt. This helps remove any dead hair to control shedding. It also helps distribute the oils from the skin, which conditions the coat naturally. You can bathe your English Foxhound as needed. Use a mild dog shampoo and conditioner approved by your veterinary care provider. During grooming, you should check their eyes for discharge or other issues and look at your dog’s ears to check for wax, dirt, and other debris. Because their ears are pendulous, they can have a tendency to hold moisture and cause infections such as otitis media. Yeast infections and mites are also common in dogs with pendulous ears. You may need to trim your dog’s nails once a month or so, depending on your dog. This can be done at home with a veterinary approved nail grinder or clipper or you can have it done by your veterinarian. Brush your dog’s teeth daily to prevent tooth decay and bad breath.
--------------------------------------------------
English Foxhounds are powerful, well balanced and clean-cut dogs that are archetypical of all large European hounds.
Bursting with energy and stamina, which allows them to run for hours at a time, these dogs were born to hunt, but they are nevertheless friendly and not aggressive.
Country: United Kingdom
Size category: Large
Avg life expectancy: 10-13 years
Confident / Friendly / Gentle / Independent / Intelligent / Sociable / Resilient
Puppyhood is a time of massive physical and behavioural change, and a steep learning curve for new owners. Find out how you can provide your puppy with the best start to life so they develop into strong, healthy dogs.
Get advice and information on how to provide the best care for your dog at every stage of life.
Like & share this page
--------------------------------------------------
