🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Entlebucher Mountain Dog, also known as the Entlebucher Sennenhund or simply Entlebucher, is the smallest of the four Swiss Mountain Dogs, which also include the Appenzeller Sennenhund, the Bernese Mountain Dog, and the Greater Swiss Mountain Dog. These dogs were traditionally used as herding dogs and were named after regions in Switzerland. The Entlebucher, in particular, is named after the Entlebuch region in the canton of Lucerne.

The breed was officially recognized by the Swiss Kennel Club in 1926, although its existence has been known since the 19th century. During the 20th century, the breed was nearly lost, but efforts by Swiss breeders helped to restore the population.
Entlebucher Mountain Dogs can suffer from degenerative myelopathy, progressive rod-cone degeneration, hip dysplasia, chondrodysplasia (CDPA), and chondrodystrophy (CDDY) with intervertebral disc disease (IVDD) risk.
Entlebucher Mountain Dogs are known for being smart, energetic, and loyal. They are devoted to their families and tend to be quite protective, making them excellent watchdogs. They are also quite social and enjoy being part of family activities.While they are generally good with children and other pets when properly socialized, their strong herding instinct can lead them to try and herd other animals or even people. Training and socialization are crucial for this breed from a young age.Despite their energetic nature, Entlebuchers can adapt well to various living situations as long as they get sufficient exercise and mental stimulation. Without these, they can become bored and potentially destructive.
Despite their size, Entlebucher Mountain Dogs are strong and agile, often surprising people with their athletic abilities.The breed is known for its unique tricolor coat, which is typically black with symmetrical white and rust markings.While they might not be as famous as their Swiss Mountain Dog cousins, Entlebuchers have a devoted fanbase due to their engaging personalities and attractive appearance.
https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/entlebucher-mountain-dog/  https://www.ukcdogs.com/entlebucherhttps://www.fci.be/en/nomenclature/ENTLEBUCH-CATTLE-DOG-47.htmlhttps://vgl.ucdavis.edu/breed/entlebucher?page=1
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
The Entlebucher mountain dog, also called the Entlebucher Sennenhund or Entlebucher cattle dog, is the smallest of the Swiss cattle dogs. In addition to working cattle, these dogs were also all-around farm dogs. Entlebuchers were recognized by the American Kennel Club in 2011 and are a member of the herding group.

The Entlebucher mountain dog size is 17 to 21 inches tall and 50 to 65 pounds for male dogs. Females are a bit smaller, growing between 16 and 20 inches tall and weighing 40 to 55 pounds.
The dogs are tricolor with a black coat with symmetrical white and fawn markings. Dogs will have white on their feet and on the end of the tail, although some people opt to dock the tail. They have brown eyes and a compact, muscular build.

Breed is not a reliable indicator of personality; however, the Entlebucher dog is typically a loyal and energetic herding dog. They can be affectionate with family and enjoy being around other dogs. They may do well around children with some training but be sure to supervise the interactions in case the dogs try to herd the children. They tend to be vigilant and may make good watchdogs.
The dogs are confident and happiest when they have a job to do. Their love of work earned them the nickname "der Lachen Hunden," or laughing dog. These dogs are very smart and will learn quickly when the training is enjoyable. Be sure to always use positive reinforcement with this breed.
Socialization is very important for Entlebucher puppies. This breed can be very challenging for inexperienced dog owners, so don't hesitate to contact a professional dog trainer if you need help training your pup.

Entlebucher mountain dogs have a short, smooth, double coat and shed moderately. A monthly bath is usually sufficient, and you can wipe them down with a wet cloth as needed. They need only infrequent brushing, although you will want to brush them daily during shedding season. A stripping comb or a brush with thick bristles will work well for this purpose.
Check their ears weekly and clean out wax and debris. In addition, check and trim their nails about once per month.

Entles are high-energy dogs and need plenty of daily activity. This will not only keep them in good shape but will also make them more enjoyable to have in the home. Consider taking your pup on a long hike or run or teach him to run with you as you ride your bike.
You can also participate in canine sports with your dog, such as agility, obedience, tracking, or herding. These sports will not only help your pup burn off excess energy but will also offer much-needed mental stimulation.

Make sure you obtain Entlebucher mountain dog puppies from reputable breeders to avoid the breed's hereditary conditions. One condition common to the breed is Entlebucher urinary syndrome. This occurs when the ureter is not correctly positioned in the body.
Some other conditions to which this breed is prone include hip dysplasia and luxating patellas. Dogs should have a physical evaluation of the hips and patella. They may also suffer from eye conditions, which is why an ophthalmologist exam and a progressive renal atrophy OptiGen DNA test are recommended.
--------------------------------------------------
Collection of all the general dog breed info about Entlebucher Mountain Dog so you can get to know the breed more.
Due to its popularity, inbreeding may occur. A new study shows that inbreeding contributes to the incidence of disease and health problems.
The Entlebucher Mountain Dog ranks below average in the intelligence ranking of dogs.
They are receptive to their owner's emotions and make wonderful family companions.
Top reasons for barking: protection, alarm, fear, boredom, attention-seeking, greeting, separation anxiety, compulsive barking.
Low  🔽
Between 200 and 400 PSI  ⏺
The Entlebucher Mountain Dog, and many others, have a fearsome presence because they have significant jaw strength, so it is important not to anger the dog and have it around strangers until it is fully trained.
However, they are usually quite calm and good companions, they work well in families and are easy to care for.
In conclusion, while the Entlebucher Mountain Dog bite force is certainly an interesting aspect of the breed, it is important not to let it overshadow the many other reasons why these dogs are so loved and respected. With proper training and socialization, an Entlebucher Mountain Dog can be a loyal and protective companion for your family.
Do Entlebucher Mountain Dog dogs need a lot of exercises?
If you notice any weight gain, consult your veterinarian and make a diet plan. Reduce unhealthy food and snacks, and measure the Entlebucher Mountain Dog weight regularly.
Ears and eyes should be cleaned sometimes to avoid infections. Entlebucher Mountain Dog is one of the best choices if you don't have the time, skill, or money to take care of a high-maintenance dog.
If you notice any change in your dog's drooling habit, you should contact a vet as soon as possible.
Medium  ⏺
Bathing will wash away your dog’s natural oils, while a simple brushing every few days should keep them clean.
Not really This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for service purposes.
This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for service purposes.
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for service purposes.
Not really This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Not really They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for detection purposes.
They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Not really This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
The Entlebucher Mountain Dog is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
Not really Entlebucher Mountain Dog breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Entlebucher Mountain Dog breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Yes
Entlebucher Mountain Dog breed is a good choice for drafting purposes.
Not really In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
60-64 days
During this time the females start to attract males. You can notice by swelling vulva and bloody discharge.
The second part is the Estrus when the female is receptive for the male. It lasts for about 3 to 11 days.
The sign of the proestrus part is the soft and enlarged vulva. The discharge decreases and lightens in color.
The third part is the Diestrus. Normally, it occurs around day 14. In this period the female’s discharge changes for vivid red and coming to its end. The vulva returns to average, and she will no longer permit mating.
The fourth part called the Anestrus. The time frame between heat periods normally lasts about six months.
Once a year.
Jan 8, 2023, 3:54:29 PM:
“Moderate intelligence”: Our Entle executes perfectly…but only if he considers it as making sense. He "treats" all 4 us differently, each time perfectly aligned with our personality and even anticipating to what we want.
Aug 25, 2022, 7:00:26 AM:
Sweet, good looking dog that need a lot of exercise.
Very easy to train and has a will to please.
Stop promoting them as guard dogs.
He starts wagging his tail and getting excited when a stranger is at the gate.
Other breeds guard more naturally
--------------------------------------------------
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is considered a great companion for humans; he is loyal and attached to his family. If there are no loved ones near him for a long time, he begins to be sad and longing. He loves children and willingly plays with them. This is especially true for school-age and teenage children. Toddlers may make the dog a little nervous.
Entlebucher Mountain Dog or Entlebucher Sennenhund became an independent breed only in 1913. Before that time, he belonged to the Appenzeller Sennenhund breed. During the war, the work on the breeding of a purebred stopped, and soon it disappeared. So the species was on the verge of extinction.
The scientist Kobler set to work on the restoration of the breed and find the bitch the scientist had to travel all over Switzerland. He managed to find the bitch Babel, which gave rise to all modern dogs.
For the first time, an Entlebucher Mountain Dog participated in a show in 1927; the same year, breeders received the right to breed dogs. A male dog named Mooch participated in a show in the 1960s, where he collected all the prizes.
The body of the dog is a bit stretched. The coat is short, dense, tricolor: the primary color is black, there are red and white markings. The eyes are small, of brown shades. The tail can be naturally short or long.
It looks solid, muscular dog. Height ranges from 42 to 50 cm. The male dogs are usually a little bit bigger than the females. The weight ranges from 25 to 30 kg.
The head is large, wedge-shaped. The transition from head to neck smooth. The muzzle seems very powerful; the nose is black. Ears of medium size, high, wide. They are rounded at the tips. The dog also has a thick undercoat, which is tight to the skin and almost invisible.
Entlebucher Mountain Dog is considered a great companion for humans; he is loyal and attached to his family. If there are no loved ones near him for a long time, he begins to be sad and longing.
He loves children and willingly plays with them. This is especially true for school-age and teenage children. Toddlers may make the dog a little nervous. They are not very patient.
If a pet senses danger, it will always warn its owner. They are excellent guard dogs. They have a very loud bark that easily scares away strangers.
Dogs are good with other animals, even like playing with them and spending time in the company. But this is only when there is no turf war.
The Entlebucher Mountain Dog can live without problems both in an apartment and in a private home with a large area. The main rule is a daily long walk outside. They have a lot of extra energy, so it needs somewhere to splash out. Various competitive games, sports, running, and other activities are great for this.
In summer, dogs can overheat in the sun, so it is essential to keep your pet in the shade. A walk is best done three times a day – morning, evening, and lunchtime for 10-15 minutes.
If you see that an Entlebucher is hot, wipe his paws and belly with a wet towel. The pet will willingly swim in the river and the lake. You can also allow him to swim in the pool. After that, be sure to check for water in the ears. A pet’s fur does not require much care; it is enough to brush it once a week and bathe it once every six months.
The Entlebucher Mountain Dog is very intelligent and has an excellent memory. But still, there are some problems with learning. The dog is stubborn, and he doesn’t have to please the owner; often, he makes his own decisions and shows his independence.
It is important to accustom your pet to other people and animals from an early age because they can bark loudly at passersby.
From the age of four months to about one year, dogs become cranky, and obedience is difficult. If difficulties arise during training, experts recommend placating the dog with a treat or praise. They are easier to influence with positive reinforcement.
Overall, the Entlebucher Mountain Dog is healthy, with only hereditary diseases such as hip dysplasia, cataracts, retinal atrophy identified.
You can feed your Entlebucher Mountain Dog natural food or food. If you choose the second option, it is essential to remember that it is best to consult a doctor because not all foods are digested equally.
If fed with natural food, most of the diet should consist of meat by-products. Cereals, vegetables, fruits can be given, and vitamins and minerals can be added to the diet.
Copyright © 2025 fello.pet |
| Privacy policy
--------------------------------------------------
Herding
20-30 kg
45-55 cm
11-15 years
Looking for a dog to join the family and can’t decide? The Entlebucher Mountain Dog might very well be the right choice.
Our Entlebucher Mountain Dog breed guide will make sure you know what is going on when it comes to these charming dogs to make an educated decision.
These dogs are descended from large dogs that resembled Mastiffs that were bred by the Romans. The Entlebucher Mountain Dog was bred to herd cattle. Their size is quite a bit smaller than their larger cousins, and a seemingly bottomless supply of energy enabled them to run behind livestock, nipping at the heels of cattle that ran astray.
It’s easy to see the resemblance of the Entlebucher Mountain Dog to other Swiss Mountain Dogs like the Bernese Mountain Dog, greater Swiss Mountain Dog and Appenzeller Sennenhund. During the 1800s, dogs very similar to the Entlebucher were very popular in Switzerland amongst farmers to protect livestock and pull carts.
During the 1900s, with World War I and II, the Entlebucher Mountain Dog was nearly wiped out due to German Shepherd crossbreeding. After the war, not a single Entlebucher could be found in Europe.
Due to the work of a handful of breeders at the time, the breed standard was established describing the breed characteristics, and in 1926, an Entlebucher breed club was started.
This handful of breeders managed to find 17 Entlebucher Mountain Dogs to replenish the population. In 2009 the American Kennel Club recognised the Entlebucher Mountain Dog as part of the Herding Breeds group.
The Entlebucher Mountain Dog is a medium-sized dog breed that is part of the Sennehund family, which are four similar herding breeds originating in various regions in the Swiss Alps. Entles are the smallest of the four, with a tricoloured coat and a friendly face, which gave them the nickname “der Lach Hund”, translated into English as “Laughing Dog”.
Entles are extremely loyal and protective when compared to other breeds. They form a very strong bond with their family and make fantastic guard dogs as they can be very cautious of strangers.
The Entlebucher Mountain Dog has a thick tricoloured coat. Their colouring is predominantly black with a white chest, feet, and the end of the tail, as well as having white markings around the muzzle stretching to the top of the head. Areas between the black and white are a light brown.
A high intelligence can mean a high propensity for boredom, which can manifest as bad behaviour as they try to satisfy their need for mental stimulation, especially if not exercised. However, they can be good family dogs and will reward you with unlimited love and affection.
They have a thick coat, but regular brushing keeps shedding at bay. Being short-haired, they are much easier to groom than their longer-haired cousins.
Well, since the Entlebucher Mountain Dog has been bred to guard livestock as well as their humans from potential threats, Entles will often bark at unfamiliar things. Entlebucher Mountain Dogs have a deep bark to scare off intruders. Their loud bark could irritate neighbours, especially at night.
They have a small and nimble build to weave in between cattle to keep the herd in check. Males are 45cm to 55cm tall, measured paw to shoulder, and females are 40cm to 50cm. They weigh in between 20kg – 30kg.
Early socialisation and obedience training are crucial for this breed because they are very smart dogs with a mind of their own.
These are very independent dogs which can often take the form of stubbornness and can be very testing for novice dog parents, especially frustrating when trying to train them but if trained consistently with firm rules, you will start to get results.
Entles can be aggressive not only to strangers but to other dogs, making it vital to socialise Entlebucher Mountain Dog puppies early on. The more exposure your puppy has to new faces and other animals at an early age, the more relaxed it will be as it goes through life meeting new people.
For these reasons, we would recommend using a dog trainer who can give your dog the comprehensive training it needs from puppyhood.
An Entlebucher Mountain Dog is a very affectionate dog and loves to spend time with their humans. But don’t be fooled; this breed has a lot of energy and needs exercise.
First-time dog parents may find this doggo a bit of a handful. If you have what it takes to keep up, you will be rewarded with a lifelong, loving companion.
Generally speaking, the Entlebucher Mountain Dog is a very healthy breed; however, even if you get your pup from a reputable breeder who follows the breed standards and is a member of breed clubs, it may still be prone to some health issues.
Some common problems found in Entlebucher Mountain Dogs include:
If cared for and looked after with the correct diet, this breed can live up to fifteen years which is a very long time full of love and companionship. Many larger dogs only live up to ten years, so if you’re looking for a dog with a long lifespan, the Entle is perfect!
Entlebucher Mountain Dogs are a very active breed and require nutrient-dense, protein-focused dog food. Fortunately with this breed and other dogs with so much energy, overfeeding is much more difficult, but it is possible and can lead to problems like canine obesity and diabetes.
In any case, make sure to choose a high-quality dog food for your canine companion, and be careful how many human treats you give them. Like any other dogs, Entles can’t have certain foods, so familiarise yourself with what is and isn’t safe for them to eat to avoid any upset tummies.
Generally, Entlebucher Mountain Dog puppies can go for anything between $800 to $1,500. This will depend on the breeders’ reputation and location.
Make sure you choose reputable breeders who health-check their puppies. Alternatively, consider rescuing an Entlebucher Mountain Dog from your local adoption centre – these pups still have plenty of love to give and often won’t cost as much initially.
Entles make for fantastic family dogs. They can be quite boisterous when they play with their family which makes them probably better suited for a home with older kids. They can become quite possessive of babies and will guard them like their own so take careful consideration before introducing an Entlebucher Mountain Dog into a family that has small children.
Entles are a very intelligent dog breed. They have a very good trainability, although sometimes stubborn. But if trained diligently with firm, fair, consistent rules, they have a high capacity to learn. They always require mental stimulation, otherwise, they can become restless and bored.
Since Entles are bred to be farm dogs, they are generally very good around most other animals if well socialised. Cats in the family will also receive protection from these vigilant dogs. There are even instances where Entles have befriended the house cat and became inseparable.
Welcome to Pets Online, a team of pet parents, animal lovers and veterinarians devoted to providing you with everything you need to know about pets.
© PetsOnline. All Rights Reserved 2025.
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
--------------------------------------------------
