The Flat-coated Retriever is a gun dog breed originating from England. It was developed as a retriever both on land and in the water.
The Flat-Coated Retriever breed standard calls for males to be 23–25 in (58–64 cm) tall at the withers, with a recommended weight of 60–80 lb (27–36 kg),[1] and for females to be 22–24 in (56–61 cm), with a recommended weight of 55–75 lb (25–34 kg).[1][2] The Flat-Coated Retriever has strong muscular jaws and a relatively long muzzle. Its head is unique to the breed and is described as being "of one piece" with a minimal stop and a backskull of about the same length as the muzzle. It has almond-shaped, dark brown eyes with an intelligent, friendly expression. The ears are pendant, relatively small, and lie close to the head. The occiput (the bone at the back of the skull) is not to be accentuated (as it is in setters, for example) with the head flowing smoothly into a well-arched neck. The topline is strong and straight with a well-feathered tail of moderate length held straight off the back. This breed should be well angulated front and rear, allowing for open, effortless movement.
The Flat-Coated Retriever comes in three colors – black (most common), liver, and yellow. Although yellow is a disqualifier in conformation, they can compete in other venues.
While they will protect their owners and property with an assertive bark, they are unlikely to back up such noise with actual aggression.[3] Because of their excellent sense of smell, combined with their boundless energy and eagerness to please their masters, they are sometimes used as drug-sniffer dogs. They are used in the breeding program for The Guide Dogs for the Blind Association in the UK, both as a breed and as cross-breeds with the Labrador Retriever.[4]
Paddy Petch, author of The Complete Flat-Coated Retriever, refers to these dogs as the "Peter Pan" of the retriever breeds, given they never quite grow up.[3]
Originating in the mid-19th century in England, the Flat-Coated Retriever gained popularity as a gamekeeper’s dog. Part of its ancestry is thought to have come from stock imported from North America from the now extinct St. John's water dog, but this is unverified. Canadian seafarers are thought to have brought Newfoundlands to British ports, and they factored into the ancestry of the Flat-Coated Retriever. Collie-type dogs may have been added to increase the breed's trainability along with the Newfoundland for strength and Setter blood for enhanced scenting ability. The first examples of the breed were introduced around 1860, but the final type was only established 20 years later.[5]
After its introduction into the U.S., the Flat-Coated Retriever began to quickly gain in popularity as a gun dog, and from 1873 when the breed became a "stable type" according to the American Kennel Club until 1915 when it was officially recognised as a breed,[6] 
their number grew rapidly. However, soon after, their popularity began to decrease, eclipsed by the Golden Retriever, which was actually bred in part from the Flat-Coated Retriever, along with other breeds[citation needed]. By the end of World War II, so few Flat-Coated Retrievers remained, the breed's survival was uncertain. However, beginning in the 1960s, careful breeding brought the population back and the breed gained in popularity again, for both the sport of conformation showing, and as a companion pet. Today, the Flat-Coated Retriever enjoys a modest popularity and is moving ahead as a breed through attentive breeding for the conformation, health, multipurpose talent, and exceptional temperament that are its hallmarks. It has yet to return in substantial numbers to field competition.
In 2011, 'Sh Ch. Vbos The Kentuckian' (aka Jet), a 9.5-year-old Flat-Coated Retriever from South Queensferry, near Edinburgh, Scotland, won Best in Show at Crufts.[7] Almanza Far and Flyg (a.k.a. Simon), from Oslo, Norway, won the Gundog Group at Crufts in 2007.[8] Before that in 2003, a Swedish dog 'Inkwells Named Shadow' had also won the Gundog Group. The last UK dog to win the Gundog Group at Crufts was "Sh Ch Gayplume Dream-maker" in 2002. In 2022 Crufts, Baxer ‘Ch. Almanza Backseat Driver’, a 6-year-old liver flat-coated retriever from Oslo Norway, won the Best in Show. The  previous other Flat-Coated Retriever to win Best in Show at Crufts was 'Ch. Shargleam Blackcap' in 1980. These wins have contributed to the breed's popularity in Europe and the United Kingdom.
A 2024 UK study found a life expectancy of 11.7 years for the breed compared to an average of 12.7 for purebreeds and 12 for crossbreeds.[9]
The most common types of tumours in the Flat-coated Retriever are cutaneous histiocytomas and soft-tissue sarcomas.[10]  A health survey of purebred dogs in the UK from 2004 showed approximately 50% of Flat-Coated Retrievers death were due to some form of cancer.[11][12]
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Stupina Kseniia, Shutterstock
Last Updated on March 11, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Flat-Coated Retriever is a unique breed with a long head and a black or liver flat-lying coat. These large and friendly dogs get along well with practically everyone. If you are thinking about getting one of these dogs for your home, read on for a discussion of their common health issues, grooming and exercise needs, intelligence, and temperament.
Height:
22–25 inches
Weight:
60–70 pounds
Lifespan:
8–10 years
Colors:
Black, liver, yellow
Suitable for:
Active families, new dog owners
Temperament:
Happy, playful, friendly
The Flat-Coated Retriever is a long-standing breed that first appeared in the 19th century, when breeders wanted an easy-to-train dog that was also friendly. This breed has a sleek coat that is usually black but can also be liver or even yellow and a long head that makes them stand out from other retrievers. They are large dogs that love to be around their human companions, and they have a temperament that many people describe as exuberant, optimistic, and eager to please.

Flat Coated Retriever puppies already have the friendly, playful personalities that make them popular as adults. They will constantly seek out companionship and will spend plenty of time exploring their environment, so you will need to ensure that your home is puppy-proofed to keep them out of trouble and out of danger.
You will also want to let your puppy spend plenty of time with other people and animals to help them be more outgoing as adults. It’s also a good idea to visit as many locations as possible, which will help them feel more comfortable in strange places as adults. Setting up their training and grooming routines is also essential while they are still puppies.

The Flat-Coated Retriever is one of the friendliest dogs that you will meet. They are continuously happy and optimistic, which makes them seem forever young, and they enjoy being around people, often staying within a few feet of a family member when not on a job. They have plenty of energy and love water, so they make great companions for people who like to spend time outdoors. However, they also don’t mind lounging around or cuddling on the couch while watching a football game or movie.
The Flat-Coated Retriever is incredibly intelligent and capable of learning a wide variety of commands and completing complex tasks. They are easy to train, even for beginners, because they maintain a constant eager-to-please and optimistic attitude well into their senior years.
The Flat-Coated Retriever is a great choice for a family because of their extremely friendly temperament and positive attitude, which makes them a joy to be around. They get along well with children and even strangers, so all of your friends will be stopping by to see them. They are easy to train, so they are a good choice as a first pet, and they are quite adaptable to different living environments if you move frequently. The only downsides to having one of these dogs are that they are a bit big, so they are not a good choice for small apartments, and that due to their fondness of people, they aren’t ideal as a watchdog.
The Flat-Coated Retriever often gets along with other pets quite well, especially other dogs, whom they tend to make fast friends with due to their friendly and playful temperament. They can even get along well with cats and other animals, especially if they spend time with them while they are still puppies. However, how well your dog gets along with other animals will depend on their unique personality, and some will have an instinct to chase smaller animals due to their retriever heritage.

Your Flat-Coated Retriever will require high-quality dog food appropriate for their age and health that has real meat like chicken or turkey listed as the first ingredient, as this will be the most nutritious. Follow the portioning advice on the package carefully, as that’s the easiest way to avoid unwanted weight gain, which affects many dogs in the United States and can lead to several health problems, including diabetes and cardiovascular issues. If you are not sure about the proper food to feed your dog, talk it over with your veterinarian, who can provide advice specifically for your pet.
The Flat-Coated Retriever is an energetic dog that needs regular exercise to stay healthy and happy. They should have at least 1–1.5 hours of vigorous activity per day, which you can break up into two or more sessions to help make it easier to achieve, along with having other family members who can pitch in. Long walks, games that include running like Frisbee and fetch, and swimming, which is one of their favorite things to do, are great ways that you can help your pet get the activity that they need.
Training your Flat-Coated Retriever should be relatively easy, especially compared to many other breeds. These dogs are eager to please and will work hard to figure out what you want from them and do it. They are also intelligent and learn quickly, so training will be a great experience for you both. Begin holding your sessions while they are still a puppy to help get them into a routine, and do them after playtime to help keep them focused. Always use plenty of positive reinforcement, which includes treats, praise, and pets, to let them know that they are doing a good job, and never get angry or frustrated with them, as that can cause them not to want to participate in the sessions out of fear of disappointing you.
The Flat-Coated Retriever has an easy coat to maintain that only requires brushing every few days to help spread their natural oils and remove loose hair. They don’t shed or drool much and only require an occasional bath with a high-quality shampoo to keep them looking their best. They will also need a nail trimming if you hear them clicking on the floor, and you will need to check their ears regularly for signs of infection or infestation and clean them as required. You will also need to brush their teeth as often as possible with a dog-safe toothpaste to help prevent dental issues, which affect many dogs.

Male Flat-Coated Retrievers are usually about an inch taller than the females and will usually be 5–10 pounds heavier. The males also tend to be friendlier and playful, while the females tend to be more independent, which also makes them easier to train.

Flat-Coated Retrievers mature more slowly than other breeds and can stay “puppies” for 3–4 years.
Flat-Coated Retrievers helped transmit messages, find lost soldiers, and detect mines during World War I and World War II.
The Flat-Coated Retriever experienced a significant decline in numbers around the time of World War II, nearly leading to the breed’s extinction. Fortunately, breed enthusiasts were able to bring them back after the war.

While other retriever breeds, like the Labrador Retriever and Golden Retriever, are more popular in the United States, the Flat-Coated Retriever can make a wonderful addition to any home. They are extremely friendly and enjoy being around family members. They get along well with children and other pets and are easy to maintain, only requiring brushing every few days. Their high energy requires a great deal of exercise, so they are better suited to a multi-member family, but they can be a wonderful companion for a single person who likes to spend time outdoors.
Featured Image Credit: Stupina Kseniia, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Ed Malaker is a seasoned writer who has contributed to a wide range of blogs covering everything from tools to guitars, and pets to fitness. When Ed isn't writing, he is usually making DIY projects around the house or working in the garden.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
© Copyright 2014 LifeLearn Inc. Used and/or modified with permission under license.
--------------------------------------------------
A wonderful family companion, the Flat-Coated Retriever (known by enthusiasts as Flatties) is cheerful, optimistic and good-humored – a true Retriever in every sense. This breed loves to be outdoors and will willingly play fetch for hours. And after a long day of playing, he’ll want to cuddle with you for a relaxing night indoors.

The Flat-Coated Retriever loves kids, which makes him the perfect fit for most families. He’s great for people who like to stay active, as well as for hunters. Outgoing, active, sweet, and lively, you’ll be hard-pressed to find a happier dog than the Flat-Coated Retriever. Read on to learn more about this amazing breed.

A wonderful family companion, the Flat-Coated Retriever is cheerful, optimistic and good-humored – a true Retriever in every sense.


He may look like a Labrador Retriever, but the Flat-Coated Retriever is a breed all its own. This breed originated in England around the 19th century as a dual-purpose land and water game retriever. S.E. Shirley is the man most credited with the breed’s development, as was H. R. Cooke of Riverside Kennel.

The Flat-Coated Retriever proved to be a popular hunting dog through the end of World War I. As the Labrador and Golden Retrievers became more popular, this breed fell out of favor – in fact, it almost became extinct! But in the mid-1960s, fans of the breed brought it back. Even though its numbers has risen, it’s still not as popular as it once was and is considered a rare breed.

The Flat-Coated Retriever is the result of crossing the Newfoundland with various types of setters, sheepdogs, spaniels and water dogs. Invaluable to fishermen, Flatties were traded between Britain and North America and fell into the generic “Labrador” category. Eventually, the Wavy-Coated (subsequently Flat-Coated) Retriever took shape and took its place as its own breed.


This is one active dog, so you’ll need to feed your Flat-Coated Retriever accordingly. Depending on what dry-food kibble you are feeding your dog, the amount will range from 3.5 to 4.5 cups a day, divided into two meals. And you should always feed your Flattie a high-quality dry food.

The Flat-Coated Retriever is slow to mature and this means he can be a bit of a challenge to train.


The Flat-Coated Retriever is slow to mature and this means he can be a bit of a challenge to train. This breed can be willful and will test your boundaries. You’ll need to have plenty of patience and lots of rewards to get your point across with this breed. Employ positive training techniques with the Flattie for the best results. Harsh discipline will only result in willful behavior, and since this is such a sensitive breed, you won’t make any headway with your training.

House training efforts may prove to be more fruitful. Introduce a crate as soon as possible – this will ensure that your Flat-Coated Retriever will stay out of trouble when you aren’t around to watch him. Another habit you may need to break your Flattie from is coprophagy (eating poop). Pick up after your dog as soon as he finishes his bathroom break – that way, there will be no delectable morsels for him to eat.


The Flat-Coated Retriever’s weight ranges from 60 to 70 pounds.

These breed is beyond happy. To them, everyone is their best friend… which is why the Flat-Coated Retriever makes a poor guard dogs. And it’s not just with people – the Flattie also gets along well with other household pets.

The happy, exuberant Flat-Coated Retriever won’t outgrow their puppyhood for a while, so expect a bouncy, upbeat dog for many years. They like jumping up on people to give them a kiss, so you’ll need to teach good manners as soon as he comes into your home.

A mouthy breed, the Flat-Coated Retriever will pick up most things with his mouth and take off running with it. They also like to chew on people’s hands and feet. Training is essential to curb this habit, as are plenty of toys that he can chew on.

Flat-Coated Retrievers can develop separation anxiety. Because they enjoy chewing, this means that he will turn on household items if he’s left alone for too long. This isn’t the breed for people who work long hours – he needs a stay-at-home parent to keep him company.


The Flat-Coated Retriever main health concerns are cancer, bloat, hip and elbow dysplasia, entropion, distichiasis, micropapilla, glaucoma and progressive retinal atrophy. As well, this breed can also suffer from hemangiosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, osteosarcoma and malignant histiocytosis.


The Flat-Coated Retriever has an average lifespan of 10 to 13 years.


You’ve got to have energy to spare to keep up with the Flat-Coated Retriever. Just when you think you’ve tired him out, he’ll be back for more. Your Flattie will need 60 to 90 minutes of exercise every day. This breed needs a backyard to run around in, although he will behave himself indoors. But if your dog isn’t getting enough exercise, he’ll take it out on your household possessions.

If you’re part of an active family, the Flat-Coated Retriever is the dog for you. This dog will run and play until you tell him to come inside. Take your Flattie out on all your outdoor activities. This includes hikes, swims, jogs and bike rides.

To them, everyone is their best friend… which is why the Flat-Coated Retriever makes a poor guard dogs.


The American Kennel Association says this about the breed: “Although his tail never stops wagging, the Flat-Coated Retriever is suited for hard work. Originally bred to flush and retrieve both upland game and waterfowl, he transfers his determination, desire and verve on the hunting field to everyday life, enthusiastically participating in family activities and in the show, obedience and agility rings.” The AKC first recognized this breed in 1915.


Outfitted in a long, straight coat, the Flat-Coated Retriever is well protected from water and harsh weather. Its coat is heavier around the neck, and there is feathering on the ears, chest, tail, thighs and the back of the forelegs. You’ll find that coats come in solid black, liver or reddish-brown colors.

To keep your Flattie’s coat shiny, you need to brush it once a week. Expect this coat to shed lightly during the year, with heavy shedding twice a year.


Be warned: Flat-Coated Retrievers mature at a slower rate than other breeds. That means you’ll have a large puppy bounding around for a few years. If you can handle all that puppy energy for years to come, this is the breed for you. Like any puppy, you’ll need to introduce your dog to different types of people, sights, sounds, and experiences while he’s young to ensure he grows up to be a well-rounded dog.

Photo credit: Erik Lam/Shutterstock
Amy Tokic, Editor of PetGuide.com, is a passionate animal lover and proud pet parent of Oscar, a Shih Tzu/Chihuahua cross, and Zed, a Japanese Chin. Her love of animals began in kindergarten, when she brought her stuffed dog Snoopy into class with her every day. Now, she writes about her adventures in pet ownership and tirelessly researches products, news and health related issues she can share with other animal enthusiasts. In her free time, Amy loves perusing used book and record stores, obsessing over the latest pet products available and chasing squirrels with wild abandon (a habit attributed to spending too much time with her pooches).
More by Amy Tokic
As dog parents, we love sharing pictures and stories of our pups. After all, we all have the cutest, most adorable dog. Right? Sometimes these stories are funny, share special heartfelt moments, and sometimes these posts are sad stories that tug at our hearts. Curious about this range of emotions, Protect My Paws recently analyzed the content in nearly a quarter of a million dog-themed tweets. From here, they identified the 10 dog breeds that make us the happiest – and the results were surprising!To analyze and understand the emotions connected to each tweet in the study, they used the NRC Lexicon. This tool looks at the entire sentence, scanning it for recognizable emotional words and phrases. This included happy, sad, fearful, and trustful phrases.The result was a breakdown of which dog breeds associated with each emotion, and the results were surprising. While you may have expected to see German Shepherd Dogs among the most trustworthy or Golden Retrievers topping the dogs that make us feel the happiest, you may be shocked. The breeds that made this list stray from the usual stereotypes.So, what dogs make us the happiest?The study found that the little black furball known as the Affenpinscher was happily talked about the most on social media! This breed may only weigh between 7 and 13 lbs. fully grown, but they are full of personality. They are described as being feisty, inquisitive, stubborn, and humorous. Of the 200k tweets analyzed, 240 “joyful” words were identified per 1000 related to the Affenpinscher.Other dog breeds on this happiest list included:Staffordshire Bull Terrier (207)Vizsla (194)West Highland White Terrier (192)Portuguese Water Dog (185)Bullmastiff (183)Chesapeake Bay Retriever (184)Samoyed (176)American Staffordshire Terrier (175)English Cocker Spaniel (174)
When it comes to humans, early detection is key when dealing with different types of cancer, and the same is true for canines. Naturally, a  healthy diet,  daily exercise, and regular veterinary checkups can all help keep your four-legged companion in tip-top condition.But, wouldn’t it be great if you knew in advance that your pooch is more predisposed to cancer? A new study  published in Royal Society Open Science shows that there is a strong link between the dog’s size and their likelihood of getting cancer.Leonard Nunney, a biologist at the University of California, Riverside, and the lead author of the study wanted to understand how cancer starts and how it is initiated in different dog breeds.&nbsp;Nunney explained that while humans have an increased risk of developing cancer as they get older, the same isn’t true for dogs.This new study looked at dogs ranging in size from a tiny  Chihuahua  up to a mastiff, and a giant  Great Dane.&nbsp;Despite the popular belief that larger dog breeds are at a higher risk of cancer, it turned out that bigger dogs are at a lower risk of developing any type of cancer simply because they tend to have shorter lifespans compared to smaller dog breeds, which typically live longer.&nbsp;Breeds like  golden retrievers,  German shepherds, and  Labrador retrievers are considered large dogs and usually live up to 12 years. This study showed that smaller dog breeds, like Chihuahuas, terriers, and Pomeranians are at a higher risk for developing cancer because they tend to live longer, typically around 15 years or more.&nbsp;While doing their research, Nunney and his team made another discovery. They learned that certain dog breeds, regardless of their size, are more predisposed to developing certain cancers.Nunney lists terriers, specifically  West Highland terriers, also known as Westies, as having a higher likelihood of developing bladder cancer. Flat-coated retrievers are prone to a rare type of cancer, called sarcoma, which is found in soft tissues and bones. In addition to these two breeds, Bernese mountain dogs are also more likely to develop cancer than other dog breeds.&nbsp;According to the  American Veterinary Medical Association, one in four dogs will, at some point in their life, develop cancer. Furthermore, almost half of dogs over the age of 10 will develop some type of cancer.&nbsp;But before you rush to get your dog to the vet for a full checkup, know that just because smaller breeds are more likely to develop cancer, that doesn’t mean they will.&nbsp;According to researchers, only a few dog breeds tend to be predisposed to cancer, as this illness is caused by genetic mutations. The researchers also discovered that while ancestry-based interbreeding reduces the breed’s life expectancy, it doesn’t increase the risk of cancer.&nbsp;Thanks to this new research scientists and animal experts can better understand dog breeds and how their genetics play a role in developing cancer.&nbsp;“Dogs are an extremely good model for understanding the genetic changes that may lead to a higher susceptibility of specific cancers,” added Nunney.&nbsp;Join the PetGuide community. Get the latest pet news and product recommendations by subscribing to our newsletter  here.
The friendly, playful, and trainable Labrador is one of the most popular dog breeds around the world.&nbsp;But, few canines are as obsessed with food as  Labrador retrievers - and now scientists think they have discovered why.&nbsp;According to new research, a quarter of labs are predisposed to obesity due to a genetic mutation.Approximately 25 percent of Labradors face a double-whammy of burning fewer calories and feeling hungry all the time because of an anomaly. Scientists explain that this obesity-causing combination means dog owners must be strict when feeding and exercising their labs to keep them fit.The mutation is found in the gene called POMC, which plays an important role in energy use and hunger, and affects how dogs behave around food.&nbsp;Around 25 percent of Labradors and 66 percent of  flat-coated retrievers are affected by POMC mutation, which puts these dogs at risk of obesity and causes increased interest in food.Researchers found that although these dogs don’t need to eat more to feel full, they are hungrier in between meals.&nbsp;The study also showed that dogs with the POMC mutation use around 25 percent less energy when resting than dogs without it. As a result, these pooches don’t need to eat as many calories to maintain a healthy weight.&nbsp;“We found that a mutation in the POMC gene seems to make dogs hungrier. Affected dogs tend to overeat because they get hungry between meals more quickly than dogs without the mutation,”  said Dr. Eleanor Raffan, a researcher in the University of Cambridge’s Department of Physiology, Development, and Neuroscience who led the study.&nbsp;“All owners of Labradors and flat-coated retrievers need to watch what they’re feeding these highly food-motivated dogs to keep them a healthy weight. But dogs with this genetic mutation face a double whammy: they not only want to eat more, but also need fewer calories because they’re not burning them off as fast,” she added.The study found that the POMC mutation alters a pathway in dogs’ brains associated with body weight regulation. The mutated genes trigger the starvation signal that sends a message to the body to increase food intake and conserve energy.The study involved 87 adult pet Labradors, all at a healthy weight or moderately obese. The dogs were subjected to several tests, including ‘the sausage in the box’ test.&nbsp;The dogs were first given a can of  wet dog food every 20 minutes until they couldn’t eat any more. All labs eat huge amounts of food, but what’s interesting is that dogs with POMC didn’t eat more food than the dogs without it.On a different day, all dogs were given the same breakfast. Three hours later they were offered a sausage in a box made of clear plastic and a perforated lid, so the dogs could see and smell the sausage but not eat it.Scientists discovered that labs with POMC mutation tried harder to get the sausage than the dogs without it, showing greater hunger.&nbsp;In another test, the dogs were allowed to sleep in a special chamber that measured the gases they breathed out. This test showed that labs with POMC mutation burn 25 percent fewer calories than dogs without it.&nbsp;According to researchers, people are often rude to owners of fat dogs, criticizing them for not feeding and exercising their dogs properly. However, this study has shown that labs with POMC are trying to increase their energy intake by looking for food all the time.&nbsp;Keeping these dogs slim is challenging, but possible.&nbsp;Spreading out daily food rations, by using puzzle feeders to slow down feeding or scattering the food around the yard so it takes longer to eat are ways owners can keep their Labradors distracted from constant hunger.&nbsp;Join the PetGuide community. Get the latest pet news and product recommendations by subscribing to our newsletter  here.
Close to 500 golden retrievers gathered in Scottish Highlands at their ancestral home to celebrate 155 years of the breed’s first litter. The five-day event, held from the 10th to the 14th of July was organized by the Golden Retriever Club of Scotland.&nbsp;This year’s celebration - which brought together 466 golden retrievers - was one of the world’s largest and cutest gatherings of goldies in one place. The event held at the ruins of the Guisachan House, in Glen Affric, welcomed hundreds of dogs and their owners from more than 12 countries.&nbsp; Golden retrievers from far away as Japan, New Zealand, and Australia participated in this event, alongside goldies from the United States, Canada, Netherlands, Romania, Croatia, Germany, the UK, Italy, Estonia, and other countries.The Golden Retriever Club of Scotland organized events for dogs and their two-legged companions. These included an afternoon tea for humans, a torchlight procession where owners walked their dogs one mile to the Guisachan House, and a training seminar where a canine behaviorist offered tips on dealing with common behavioral issues such as separation anxiety and destructive chewing.During “The Gathering” event at the Guisachan House, dogs and their owners could participate in several games, such as haggis hurling, scurry, tug of war, and the Grand old Duke of York, which involved counting the number of golden retrievers present. And, of course, a gathering of this scale wouldn’t be complete without a group photo!Carol Henry, secretary of the Golden Retriever Club of Scotland told the BBC that the goal of this event is to share knowledge about this breed and put a stop to irresponsible breeding practices. "We want to hold on to confidence, the biddability, the companionship, and loyalty - all things the golden retriever was built on,” she said.&nbsp;This event happens every five years at the remains of Guisachan House, the ancestral home of the golden retriever breed. “A lot of golden retriever owners find there’s an emotional attachment to the Guisachan House and it’s where they want to go and look and experience,” said Mrs Henry.&nbsp;The golden retriever was bred by Dudley Coutts Marjoribanks, also known as the first Baron Tweedmouth. The first litter of golden retrievers was born in 1868 to a now-extinct Tweed water spaniel and a yellow-colored flat-coated retriever. The four puppies from that litter - Primrose, Cowslip, Ada, and Crocus were used to establish the golden retriever breed as we know it today.&nbsp;Deborah Robbins, who attended this year’s event with her two dogs, said “It was well worth it. I would go again next weekend if it was on.” Visiting the breed’s place of origin and being surrounded by goldens made her feel very emotional. “To see them all together was just so special, especially in the place where first golden retrievers were bred,” she said.&nbsp;Robbins is already excited about the next Guisachan golden retriever gathering, which should take place in 2028 - on the 160th anniversary of the golden retriever breed. “I’ll be booking as soon as it’s announced,” she said.&nbsp;
Have you ever noticed your dog pacing, panting, or hiding during thunderstorms or fireworks? Does your dog panic when a new guest arrives? You’re not alone! Many dogs experience anxiety, and it can have a significant impact on their well-being. Anxiety has been associated with higher stress levels, behavioral changes, and even physical health issues. Understanding how to ease your pup’s anxiety is key to providing the best possible quality of life.While there are calming products and supplements you can try, they often serve as a temporary solution to a more long-term problem. Creating a safe space is a proactive approach that can empower your dog to manage their stress and feel secure in their own home.Understanding Your Dog’s Anxiety Just like people, dogs can experience anxiety, and it can stem from a variety of triggers. Some of the most common culprits include: Loud Noises: fear and anxiety triggered by loud sounds such as thunder, fireworks, or construction Separation Anxiety:  the distress dogs feel when they are left alone Social Anxiety: stress and anxiety triggered by interactions with people (especially strangers) or other animals Travel Anxiety: increased stress often associated with car rides or vet visits While these are the most common causes, your dog’s anxiety could be caused by just about anything that causes them stress or upset. Even subtle changes in routine or environment and past traumatic experiences can manifest in anxiety. With such a wide range of possible triggers, it’s easy to see why it’s so common. Recognizing the symptoms of anxiety is the first step in providing trimly support and much-needed relief. These signs can be physical, behavioral, or a combination of both. You may notice your dog is panting excessively, pacing, trembling, or whining. Many anxious dogs will also hide or seek constant reassurance from their people. Some dogs will even display destructive behavior, like digging and chewing. Subtle cues like lip licking, yawning, and “whale eye” (showing the whites of their eyes) are also signs of underlying fear and anxiety. Not only is anxiety an uncomfortable situation in the moment, but chronic or prolonged anxiety can lead to a long list of health problems and a diminished quality of life. When dogs experience stress, their bodies release hormones like cortisol, which, over time, can weaken the immune system, upset their sleep patterns, and contribute to gastrointestinal problems. Chronic stress can also worsen existing health issues and negatively impact their overall mental and emotional well-being. This is why it is so important to take steps to address the problem if you suspect your dog is struggling with anxiety. It’s not just about relieving their immediate discomfort; it’s about protecting their long-term health and happiness. What is a Safe Space? A safe space for your dog is a designated area or room where they can retreat to feel secure and protected. It’s their refuge from the stressors of daily life, a place where they can find comfort and calm if they are feeling overwhelmed. Think of it as their personal sanctuary, a place they can go when they need to decompress and feel safe. Think of the average teen or pre-teen child and the importance of their bedroom. When they are feeling angry, upset, or frustrated with anything happening at school or home, that’s the space they usually run to (often accompanied by slamming the door). This is the equivalent for your pup. Your dog’s safe space could be a quiet corner of a room, a rarely used room like a guest room, den, or even their crate. One common misconception is that creating a safe space is a form of punishing or isolating your dog. This couldn’t be further from the truth. This special area shouldn’t be seen as a punishment. It’s a positive and comforting retreat. A safe space is a tool to empower your dog to manage their anxiety, not to confine them. In fact, more often than not, their ability to move about the house isn’t restricted in any way. Instead, it's a place where they can voluntarily seek comfort, a haven where they can feel secure and protected. Of course, to make this feel like a safe place they can turn to, there are a few factors you will need to consider, including the actual setup of the space and the training required to help create a positive association with it. So, let’s look at those two key elements in more detail… Creating the Ideal Safe Space To set up the ideal safe space for your dog, you must carefully consider several factors, from location and comfort to gradual introduction and positive reinforcement. The following guidelines will help you provide your pup with a secure and calming getaway. Location, Location, Location When setting up your dog’s space, location is key. Consider your dog’s personality and preferences. Some dogs will feel safer in a space that is closer to their person, while others would be happier tucked away somewhere secluded on their own. Ideal spots are often quiet corners, back rooms, or even closets. The goal is to find a naturally secluded area away from your home’s highest-traffic zones. Your dog may prefer enclosed spaces with a door or flap that cuts them off from the rest of the world. Alternatively, they may feel more comfortable in an open area. Pay attention to your dog’s natural hiding spots for clues as to what will make them feel most secure. The Right Bed or Crate A comfortable bed or crate should be the central feature of this safe space. Size, material, and placement are all factors to consider. The bed or crate should allow your dog to stand up, turn around, and lie down comfortably. Consider whether soft, plush materials or a firm, supportive surface best suits your dog’s preferences. If you’re using a crate to build out this space, you’ll need to choose between a more open or closed crate design. Open crates offer security while allowing your dog to still see what’s going on around them. Closed crates create a more secluded spot. If you currently have an open crate but feel your dog would benefit from a closed design, you can easily transform it with a crate cover or even just a blanket draped over the top.
Bringing comfort and support to women in a London safe-house, this feline takes top prize.
Most dogs have a hearty appetite and won’t pass up a chance to eat. However, unchecked eating habits can quickly lead to weight issues, including obesity. Conversely, some dogs may be picky eaters or have health conditions that leave them underweight. As a responsible owner, it’s crucial to recognize whether your dog is overweight or underweight and take the necessary steps to maintain a healthy weight. Both conditions can pose serious health risks, such as joint problems, heart disease, or malnutrition. Here’s a detailed guide to help you evaluate and manage your dog’s weight.Signs of an Overweight DogSome dogs are more prone to weight gain due to factors like breed, age, and activity level. If you suspect your dog is overweight, look for these signs:Difficulty Feeling Ribs: Place your hands on either side of your dog’s chest. If you cannot feel their ribs without pressing through a thick layer of fat, your dog may be carrying extra weight.Lack of a Visible Waistline: When viewed from above, a healthy dog should have an inward curve between the ribs and hips. A rounded or barrel-like shape often indicates excess weight.Reduced Stamina: Overweight dogs may struggle with physical activities, tire easily, and pant heavily even after minimal exercise.Signs of an Underweight DogIt’s generally easier to identify if a dog is underweight. Common indicators include:Visible Bones: Protruding ribs, hip bones, and spine are key signs of an underweight dog. While some breeds naturally have a lean frame, excessively visible bones are cause for concern.Lack of Fat and Muscle Mass: Underweight dogs often feel “bony” to the touch and lack muscle tone, giving them a frail appearance.Low Energy Levels: Like overweight dogs, underweight dogs may seem lethargic or disinterested in play and exploration.Keep in mind that certain breeds have naturally slender builds (e.g., sighthounds like  Greyhounds), while others may appear stockier (e.g.,  Bulldogs or  Newfoundlands). Understanding your dog’s breed characteristics is essential when assessing their weight.Maintaining a Healthy WeightTo ensure your dog remains at a healthy weight, follow these steps:Regular Weigh-Ins:Invest in a reliable  dog scale and weigh your dog periodically to track changes over time.
Have you ever noticed how your dog seems to know your voice even when they can’t see you? Do you wonder if they actually know it’s their human calling or if they just assume it’s you because you’re in your shared home? A new study from Hungary suggests that your dog may actually recognize your voice. In fact, they may be able to recognize the voices of each of their family members. The study, published in Animal Behavior, aimed to find out if a dog could distinguish between different voices – not only between familiar and unfamiliar voices but also between the voices of different family members. “Previous studies demonstrated that dogs are sensitive to certain acoustic cues in the human voice, they can recognize the sex of the speaker and distinguish between familiar and unfamiliar voices,” explained Kinga Suranyi, Ph.D. student at the ELTE Department of Ethology. “Whether dogs are capable of voice-based individual-level recognition of humans had not been demonstrated before this experiment. To do this, they invited 31 dogs to participate, and with each dog, three different family members. One at a time, a pre-recorded speech made by one of the owners was played through the loudspeakers. The three owners sat in a row, not speaking, gesturing, or hinting at which person’s voice the dog was hearing. The dog was then monitored for any signs of recognition. Each dog went through this test 18 times. The results were surprising, with the dogs looking to the person whose voice they were hearing more often than not.
Research shows that a strong, loving relationship with our pets is more important to them than what type of person you are.
(photo credit: Julie Zavalishina / shutterstock.com)My trio of gal pals love a good romp at the leash-free park. And while a robust brushing will usually dislodge the bits of twigs and dried leaves they bring home, those muddy paws and stinky coats often require a trip upstairs and the dreaded bath. But let’s be honest, the sound of running water and the pop of the shampoo bottle cap is such a buzz-kill after a fun day out at the park.Now, I’ve always believed that dogs don’t need regular baths. In fact, it’s best not to lather them up too often because it depletes their natural oils and can result in dry skin and dull coats. While typically that’s the case, there are certain breeds that do require more in-depth cleaning (translation: baths). That’s because they have oilier skin that, if not kept clean, will start to smell funky over time and could develop into a flaky, itchy skin condition called seborrhea. Breeds such as Yorkshire terriers, Basset Hounds, German Shepherds, Cocker spaniels, and even Golden Retrievers will all benefit from regular baths.But for those in-between times where brushing isn’t enough yet a bath isn’t really necessary, there’s something called a steam brush that works wonders on both dogs and cats. Just like it sounds, the brush component works to remove loose hair and debris – just like a regular brush - but when you activate the steamer feature, you get a gentle stream of mist. It’s ideal for taking grooming sessions to the next level when it comes to eliminating loose hair and dust from your pet’s coat. And for longer-haired cats, it helps reduce their need to over-groom and brings an end to hairballs.For me, I love that you can combine your pet’s love of grooming (what pet doesn’t?) with a deeper clean. And because these units are anti-static, they naturally eliminate loose fluff from flying around the house.
Designer dogs, or hybrid dogs, are a mix of two purebreds. Unlike mutts, you’ll know which breeds make up a designer dog. But, like any mixed breed dog, puppies will inherit the diverse traits of their parents, so there can be variations in temperament, coat, and other features, and this can make it a bit challenging to predict what these dogs will be like. Today, there are many highly sought-after designer dog breeds, whether they’re beloved for their looks, personality, or eagerness to work. Below are five designer dogs that have a lot to offer.
We often hear about musicians and artists making an impact through financial donations or participating in charitable events. But a new heartwarming story of a dog’s search for his forever home has been capturing the hearts of animal lovers everywhere. Graham Cracker was found by a young girl in the woods of Vilonia, Arkansas, with his mother and littermates. She had been sneaking food to the stray mama dog, trying to do what she could to help. After her mother found out about the dogs, she contacted a rescue team to find them and get the pups to safety. This was when their journey led the pups to The Bond Between, a non-profit rescue organization in Minnesota. But for Graham Cracker, this was just the beginning! On October 17th, an announcement on Instagram revealed that Graham Cracker had found a loving but very unique foster parent. After seeing the young pup’s adorable photos, Grammy-winner Pink invited the pup, who appears to be a Labrador Retriever mix, to join her and her family on tour. She went on to announce the decision to her fans during her St. Paul, MN show:“We rescued a puppy from this awesome organization called The Bond Between. His name is Graham Cracker. He’s currently peeing all over my dressing room,” Pink stated while seated at her piano on stage. “We’re actually – I haven’t told anybody this yet, but we’re gonna foster him for the tour, and he’s gonna go on this big carnival adventure with us.”
Nobody likes hiccups, least of all dogs! That’s right – dogs can get hiccups just like humans. Those pesky little rhythmic contractions of the diaphragm can go on forever, producing that classic “hic” sound and annoying everyone, starting with the one who is hiccuping, even when it’s your pooch. If you are surprised to learn that dogs can get hiccups, read on to find out what causes it and how to stop it.Why Do Dogs Get Hiccups?Hiccups are not a serious issue and they occur in dogs for the same reasons they appear in humans. They are brought about by an involuntary spasm of the diaphragm muscle. This is immediately followed by a sudden closure of the vocal cords, resulting in the classic hiccup sound. But still, there are several reasons why these spasms might occur. Here are just a few:Eating too quickly:If your pet consumes water or food very quickly, they might swallow air as well. The excess air can irritate the diaphragm and result in hiccups.Too much excitement or stress:When a dog is nervous, too excited, or in a stressful situation, they can also hiccup. This most often occurs in puppies, who are generally much more excitable than adult dogs. Digestive upset:Dogs are voracious eaters and won’t be picky about their food. Sometimes, however, they can have digestive issues such as indigestion and gas. This then irritates the diaphragm, leading to hiccups. This is the most common occurrence, and results from the dog eating something that doesn’t really agree with their stomach – if you have an indiscriminate eater in your household, it pays to have activated charcoal on hand to ease their tummy troubles.
The American Humane Hero Dog Award was given to a very special Bloodhound named Bo. He works as a Police K9 with the Gastonia Police Department in North Carolina, and has been doing so since 2023.
Have you seen the many elevated cat bowls, or the stands designed to elevate your pet’s bowl or dish a few inches off the floor? If so, you might’ve wondered why these newer designs are available—after all, cats have been eating and drinking from food and water bowls placed flat on the floor without any problems, right? There are actually many benefits that can be derived from using raised bowls for pets, and it’s worth considering switching to these or adding them to your rotation of bowls if you haven’t already. Plus, with so many styles to choose from, you can find products that will be just right for your cat.
There are many strategies you can use to find a pet who has gone missing, and most people start with the basics like posting flyers around town and posting about their lost pet online. Also, if your pet is microchipped, the hope is that, if they are found by someone, they will be taken to a veterinarian or animal shelter and be scanned so you can be contacted right away.But what if your pet gets lost and no one is able to find them, even though you’ve put the word out and have looked everywhere? Well, a drone with thermal imaging technology might be just what you need.
(photo credit: FoodFocus / shutterstock.com)One of the true rites of passage to being a dog owner is dealing with muddy paws. During the pandemic, I was glued to the myriad designer shows that were streaming on every network. And I think I may have drooled a little as I watched them stroll through those renovated homes that now featured mud rooms and something that’s I considered totally OTT - dog washing stations. I mean it’s really just a hand-held showerhead that you use to hose off muddy feet before they go racing through the house, across the carpets and onto the furniture. But what a concept – cleaning your dog’s paws before he enters the house.With three dogs and an amazing 19-acre leash-free park just a five-minute drive away, we enjoy having the room to roam during all four seasons. And because that includes those mushy snow thaws and spring showers, we’re talking mud. And lots of it. I’ve tried bringing damp towels to clean off dirty feet as well as those pre-moistened baby wipes that a fellow pet parent once suggested. Neither was enough to make a dent in the dirt.
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Flat-Coated Retriever was developed in the mid-19th century in England as a gamekeeper's dog. It is believed to have descended from various breeds including the Newfoundland, Labrador, setter-type dogs, Spaniel-like water dogs, and possibly the Collie. These dogs were selected for their exceptional retrieving skills in both land and water, making the breed an excellent bird dog. During the two World Wars, the breed nearly became extinct, but dedicated breeders revived their numbers in the 1960s and 1970s.
Flat-Coated Retrievers can suffer from bloat, also known as gastric dilation volvulus (GDV). This is a life-threatening condition that can come on suddenly, so it’s important to know the warning signs and get an affected dog immediate veterinary care. There are other health conditions to which they may be more susceptible. These include epilepsy, glaucoma, progressive retinal atrophy, and some types of cancer such as hemangiosarcoma, malignant histiocytosis, osteosarcoma, and lymphosarcoma. Genetic testing can assist veterinarians with diagnosis and proactive care, as well as help breeders identify affected and carrier dogs.
Flat-Coated Retrievers are known for their friendly and outgoing personalities. They are often described as being "forever puppies" due to their high energy levels and playful behavior that lasts well into their adult years. They are intelligent, trainable, and often do well in obedience, agility, and field trials. They enjoy being part of the family activities and are generally good with children and other animals. However, their exuberance and size can make them too much for very young children or smaller pets.
The Flat-Coated Retriever was once the most popular retriever breed in Britain before being surpassed by the Labrador Retriever. They are known for their distinct "Peter Pan" personality, as they maintain their playful, puppy-like demeanor well into their adult years.Due to their high energy levels and intelligence, Flat-Coated Retrievers often excel in dog sports such as agility, obedience, and field trials.The founder of the Kennel Club of England, Mr. E. Shirley, was an avid promoter of the Flat-Coated Retriever breed in the 1870s.
https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/flat-coated-retriever/   https://www.petmd.com/dog/breeds/c_dg_flat_coated_retriever   https://www.fci.be/Nomenclature/Standards/121g08-en.pdf  https://www.ukcdogs.com/flat-coated-retriever
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
