It has been a myth between dog owners and a legend that dogs and cats always have to be enemies or that dogs still kill cats or destroy their bones. While this is true among some breeds like Pitbull, it is not a habit of dogs to kill cats. Dogs are known to be more kind than cats (every owner who had both animals will say the same). And I have a dog and a cat living together as if they were of the same litter. And believe it or not, German Shepherds and cats are known to get along very well. Even though the fact that German Shepherds are guard dogs and have sharp teeth.
“To achieve the pleasure of having a German Shepherd and a cat living together with no issues is pretty simple. It only requires small steps, like making sure to train them and act out the scene before getting them together. You can do this by visiting a friend with a cat to make sure your dog is ready to live with a new cat.”
Before we get into this post, we have to know some facts about German Shepherds.
While German Shepherds are known to be the most popular dogs worldwide, not many people know the character of these dogs. German Shepherds are known to be highly disciplined dogs with sharp teeth and one of the most muscular bodies of all time. They are known to be excellent hunters and ready to rip off any enemy in a matter of seconds. They are trained in armies to break into buildings and jump from very high hight and continue to chase their PREY.
After all, they are also known to be the KINDEST dogs around, weird? No, any German Shepherd owner will tell you that this breed is the best. It is a perfect mix of kindness and toughness.
While they have very high prey instincts that they always chase any fast-moving object that they can chase cats. They are also known to live with cats with no issues, depending on how they were brought up. For example, if a German Shepherd was brought up to destroy any PREY, then he will likely never let a cat alive. However, if a German Shepherd is brought up to be a playful dog with the ability to scare strangers, then he will never damage any cat. German Shepherds are known to be one of the most dogs that can control themselves, and that’s why they are lovely.
I always love to have the cat older than the dog, not the opposite. At least, if a cat is older than a dog, it can run very fast to escape any potential threats. If the cat was very young and you had an old muscular German Shepherd, they can be well together. However, it can be dangerous and threating for the cat.
We can’t know how your dog will react with the cat. But you can have an overview of what will happen if you followed those steps:
So, the above steps are for people who want to buy a cat for a full-grown German Shepherd. Let’s look at the opposite side.
If you have a full-grown cat, it will be pretty easy, actually. Because even if cats are aggressive towards dogs, they won’t be able to eat them. It’s much easier to introduce the dog to the cat if you bought a young dog, the dog will grow up with the cat and become the cat’s best friend. That’s the reason I prefer this option as it guarantees that your dog will be OK around a cat 100% of the time.
Great, you have introduced your dog to a cat. However, as we said. German Shepherds are sweet but hunters, so in the first couple of months, you have to keep a close look at the relationship between your dog and your cat. Generally, you should take the situation seriously if one of these things happened:
If you noticed any of the above signs, then it’s probably best to separate the German Shepherd and the cat from each other. There is a probability that they won’t be OK with each other again.
A lot of German Shepherds or dogs, in general, suffer from resource guarding. If you don’t know what it is. Naturally, it is the dog trying to safeguard his resources (food, toys, bed, etc.)
While we can’t know the exact reason that develops resource guarding in dogs, we know that resource guarding can happen due to a variety of reasons:
While it’s effortless to correct this problem at younger dogs, this issue becomes harder if your dog grows up. So I recommend adjusting it at the moment of seeing it. Oh, and by the way, you can leave a comment with your problem, and we will answer it right away!
I prefer to remove the cat from the house and give it to a friend until the dog corrects this behavior. Resource guarding is a threatening problem, especially with hunters like German Shepherds. So I prefer to remove the cat, rehab the dog, and return the cat to avoid any potential damages.
Sometimes, German Shepherds won’t like cats for no reason. They find the cats to be small creatures and will try to bark at them or bite them whenever they see a chance. If this is your situation, then I prefer not to keep them together. However, you can try your dog to love it by using the following steps:
After that, you should have your German Shepherd and your cat going well together with 0 issues.
The reasons may vary, the most popular ones are obviously that we love both! And we want to have a beautiful life with both of them and by the way, you will find that most of the time the cat is stronger than the dog and terrifies him.
Another reason is to have a companion for your dog/cat. I wanted to buy another cat or dog for Kira because I am so busy that I am not able to spend time with her as much time as possible. So if I bought another dog or cat for her, she will probably spend more time with the cat that can make her very happy. HOWEVER, buying another dog/cat needs more care, time and effort from your side too and will need more training. So you should search well before proceeding to this step 😉
While we have discussed that growing up German Shepherds and cats together can lead to a funny life where both of them will stimulate each other. However, I strongly recommend to not get both together if you’re a new owner. If you have never raised a cat or a dog and this is your first time to raise each of them, then how can you help them pass through a severe stage that requires an expert to deal with them? Especially that you are buying a very disciplined and muscular dog that can become a stiff weapon if not appropriately trained.
Wait a little bit until you become entirely comfortable around your dog and thoroughly familiar with all the doggy traits then you can think about getting a cat. Remember, after all, they’re creatures that require love and care. And by the way, you can find the traits of cats here.
Raising a German Shepherd with a cat isn’t for new or beginner owners. It is a subject that requires more knowledge and more familiarity with the traits and behaviors of both. While I provided solutions to most of the problems that you will face, I still recommend being somehow an expert before taking any step that can affect the life of any creature. After all, you want to have a happy life not a life of fear and pressure.
If you want to raise a dog and cat together badly, then I’d recommend raising a playful dog like Labrador where you can feel safe with him being around the cat, you can view our article about Labs and Cats together to know more. Meanwhile, if you have any questions about any subject, let us know in the comments and we will offer free help for you all!
Soheir Maher
Hi, I am Soheir. I have always been passionate about dogs. My first dog was Leo who was a wonderful Golden Retriever after that I got Kira another Golden Retriever who is wonderful too. 

My passion for dogs made me read a lot about them. Training them personally made me become an expert in everything related to them, that's why my writing is always a mix of experience and science. My writing about dogs isn't for the sake of earning a living but instead, for the sake of benefiting people around the world.
Can You Shave a Cavalier King Charles Spaniel
Sometimes we want to help our dogs through the hot summers. One of the things we consider is shaving our dogs. I have a Cavalier King Charles, and I was wondering about shaving her. Here is what I...
What Dogs Are Similar To Cavalier King Charles Spaniel?
The Cavalier King Charles Spaniel is often mistaken for other breeds. For example, my dog Mayla is often mistaken for a Cocker Spaniel. So I thought I would dive into what breeds are similar to the...
--------------------------------------------------
There’s a huge misconception that dogs and cats are rivals and that German Shepherds are especially difficult to integrate with cats simply because they are working dogs. But, keep in mind that GSDs are intelligent, highly trainable, and incredibly social. Just as with other dogs and any other animal they can share a home with a cat peacefully. It’s even possible for a German Shepherd and a cat to be the best of friends.
German Shepherds can be good with cats, but it depends on your particular German Shepherd.  The truth is, any dog’s ability to get along with cats has nothing to do with their breed.  Many German Shepherds can get along fine with a cat with proper socialization and training.
Keep in mind that individual dogs could react to their feline counterparts differently.  Plus, just because they get along with one cat, it doesn’t mean they’ll get along with all cats. Don’t forget that the cat’s temperament and prior socialization also plays a huge role as well.
Many German Shepherds share their homes with cats and are actually friendly with one another. But, there are also some GSD’s that won’t tolerate a cat’s presence. So, if you have a German Shepherd and are hoping to welcome a cat into your family, you need to reflect on your GSD’s characteristics and determine whether it’s a good idea.
Depending on how long you’ve had your GSD and how hands-on you are in caring for them, you probably already have a vague idea of how they might react to sharing their home with a cat. But, here are some of the critical factors that might make your German Shepherd more likely to integrate well with cats:
The younger your GSD is, the more open they will probably be to living with a cat. It also helps if the cat is young so that neither of them is already set in their ways. When you introduce cats to dogs while they’re both still young, curiosity and playfulness will likely take over, and they probably won’t even notice their differences. That’s not to say that older German Shepherds will be bad with cats. Growing up together just tends to make things easier.
Your German Shepherd’s prior experience with cats and other animals should give you a good idea of whether or not they will tolerate or even enjoy having a feline sibling.
Are they wary of or playful with new animals they encounter? Keep in mind that if they tend to be nervous around other animals, their instinct to protect themselves might drive them to be aggressive. Have they had plenty of exposure to cats before? The more positive interactions they’ve had with other animals (especially other cats), the better your chances are of a smooth introduction.
A socialized German Shepherd is one thing, and a sociable one is another. Your dog could have had plenty of exposure to other animals without incident, but is their personality suited for sharing a home with a cat?
Do they insist on always being the center of attention? How do they feel about sharing their space as well as their toys? If they’re even-tempered and laid-back, the more likely they are to be good with cats.
Being a working breed, German Shepherds were bred to have a high prey drive. That means they have an instinct to chase after cats, especially those who make sudden movements and run away very quickly.
Generally, a higher prey drive may make it more difficult for your German Shepherd to love a cat.  It’s easier for a GSD to co-exist with a cat if it has a lower prey drive.
You’ll know this by observing how your dog reacts to the presence of other animals. Some of the most obvious signs are whether they lunge after cats during walks and whether they’ve chased after other animals before.
No matter how socialized your German Shepherd is or how well they’ve behaved with other cats, it’s essential to do the introduction in stages. That’s the best way to guarantee their safety as well as their emotional well-being.
Before you begin, your GSD should have at least gone through basic training and already responds to your verbal cues obediently to make this introduction easier.  Once you’re confident that both the dog and the cat are ready, follow these steps:
Prepare a clean towel for each animal. Rub the towel on our GSD’s body, particularly on the sides and armpits. Then, use the other towel on your cat, paying special attention to the area around the face.
Then, place the cat-scented towel near your dog and vise versa. Pay attention to how each of them reacts. Even better, give them a treat or praise them when they sniff the towel in order to develop positive associations with the scent.
Anywhere you have a glass door is a perfect place to do this. Place your GSD on one side and the cat on the other, making sure that they can’t get to each other. You don’t need to force them to interact, but it’s an excellent time to observe how they’ll react to each other’s presence.
Start with 5-minute sessions and increase the length of time in subsequent sessions. You’ll need to do this repeatedly until they get used to each other’s presence.
Let them interact through a pet gate or something similar.
This way, they get some contact and can sniff each other while keeping them
both safe from any possible aggressive reactions. Stay on this step until
you’re confident that they’re both ready for full contact.
For this step, it’s essential to keep your German Shepherd leashed. Keep the leash short and maintain control, then increase the slack little by little as they show positive behaviors. Throughout this process, make sure that you give plenty of praises or treats for actions that you want to reinforce.
While you maintain control over your GSD, keep an eye out for your cat and lookout for signs of stress and discomfort. If they walk away, let them and try again another time.
It might take a while, but you mustn’t move on to this step unless you’re a hundred percent sure you can trust your German Shepherd and cat completely. Also, don’t leave them unsupervised until they’ve had plenty of unleashed interactions without incident.
The short answer is I doubt it.  I don’t have a cat because I don’t think my girl would live well with one.
How do I know my Allie doesn’t like cats?
At her very first vet appointment a couple of days after I brought her home at 8 weeks old, we came out of the examining room and there was a lady sitting in the waiting room with a small crate on the floor.
My dog went up and sniffed at the crate then jumped back and growled.  The lady said, “well I guess she doesn’t like cats”.    That was my first clue.
Allie also has a very strong prey drive and whenever she sees a cat she wants to pounce and chase and sometimes she growls.
All this adds up to I don’t think my German Shepherd would care to have a cat in the house.
However, I know many other German Shepherd owners, whose dogs have a different temperament than my girl, and their dogs do wonderful with cats.  I know one person who has 3 German Shepherds and 2 cats and they have no problems.
The temperament of the German Shepherd and the temperament of the cat is key to their ability to get along or simply co-exist.  This varies on a case by case basis.
German Shepherds can get along with cats, but it all depends on the individual dog and cat.  Each situation will be different.
Apart from the right temperament and proper socialization, it takes a good introduction for cats and dogs to be friendly with one another. If you’re lucky, your cat and GSD might even end up becoming the best of friends.
The German Shepherd breed is known for a number of desirable characteristics. Because of this, they…
Dogs are protective by nature, but it’s always wonderful to see them care for young human…
Many people with disabilities and disabling illnesses rely on mobility service dogs to perform many of…
--------------------------------------------------
By: Author Amanda OBrien
Posted on Last updated: March 25, 2025
The battle between cats and dogs is as old as time itself. And German Shepherds and cats are no different. But is it true that cats and dogs can’t get along? They are very different species, and both view the other as potential prey. But cats and dogs can get along – it is all about how the process of bringing these two species together is managed.
The breed can also impact how difficult it or easy it is for cats and dogs to get along. But are German Shepherds good with cats? The short answer is that they can be. So we’ll look at what factors will influence the relationship between a German Shepherd Dog (GSD), processes that can be followed to build that relationship, and finally, some troubleshooting with FAQs.
Contents
Different breeds of cats and dogs have different temperaments or tendencies. However, the reality is that any pet’s ability to get along with others will depend on their training – particularly for dogs. Individual temperaments will play a role as well but are more likely to affect how long it takes the two to get on or how well they get on rather than whether they can get on at all.
German Shepherds are one of the most popular dog breeds in America. These versatile dogs are intelligent and courageous. They are working dogs and tend to do very well at anything for which they are trained.
Despite their size, they can be sensitive, and they don’t like being on their own. They are very affectionate family members and good with kids as well as strangers. GSDs are also high-energy and love to play. They need a lot of exercise to stay happy and minimize bad behavior.
I have a series of articles on how different dog breeds get along with cats: Can Poodles and Cats Get Along?, Labradoodles and Cats, French Bulldogs and Cats, Rottweilers and Cats, Corgis and Cats, Golden Retrievers and Cats and Shih Tzus and Cats.
As working dogs, it is in the genes of a GSD to help herd and keep the flock in line. They often round around flocks of sheep making sure they’re all okay and in line. Indeed, they will nip at the ankles of any lamb who strays from the group. In this way, their behavior can be similar to terrier dogs like Jack Russells, who are bred to chase and catch animals.
So when a GSD sees a fluffy cat making quick moves, it will have a strong instinct to chase that creature and nip at its ankles. If you’re a cat owner, you know this type of behavior will not go down well with your favorite feline. This is also why some GSDs can become a bit obsessed with a cat and follow them around.
However, GSDs can be trained to manage this natural instinct to prey. This can be achieved through socialization.
The American Kennel Club says that GSDs are most open to learning how to socialize in their first three months. Without socialization, a GSD will only know a small number of people. When it encounters others, it will potentially be scared and uncomfortable.
Socialization tends to increase a dog‘s confidence. Learning how to deal with new situations helps them to develop belief in themselves – just like humans. Each new socialization experience should make the one after easier.
Socializing a German Shepherd dog can take many forms. It can include things like introducing your dog to new sounds, new sights, new objects, and new places. Critically, this should include different people and different animals.
These are some facts to consider when wondering if your German Shepherd and cats would get along.
Do German Shepherds get along with cats? Age has a big role to play in whether German Shepherds are good with cats. The younger both animals are, the more likely they will be able to get along. Kittens and puppies, like humans, are far less set in their ways. When they are young, both animals will be more likely to be curious and want to play – they most likely haven’t learned to be afraid of each other yet.
There is always the potential for older pets to get along or to mix an older pet with one that is younger, but this is usually an easier process when both pets are younger. If your German Shepherd dog is older, ask the shelter owner or previous owner if it has had any time around cats. And also, ask if they have had any bad experiences with cats, as this could have a major impact on their ability to get along with your cat.
Do German Shepherds like cats? That all depends. How sociable are both animals? How much exposure has each animal had to other animals? An animal that has grown up on its own with a large amount of attention may struggle more to share their space and its owner’s attention with another animal. However, those animals with more experience in sharing and being around other animals may adjust more quickly.
Cats tend to be far more cautious than dogs – but of course, all cats are different. What is your cat like in new situations? Is it quite bold or timid? It is important to take each individual animal’s temperament into account when bringing the two animals together.
As a working breed of dog, German Shepherds have a high prey drive. They will have a strong instinct to chase after fluffy objects, particularly if they make sudden moves. A German Shepherd with a higher prey drive will find it more difficult to get along with a cat, and vice versa with a lower prey drive.
If the GSD is a bit older, you or its owner will probably have a sense of how strong their prey drive is based on how they react to other animals on walks etc.
Can German Shepherds get along with cats? A GSD that has been spayed or neutered will feel less need to show dominance to a cat. If your dog is neutered or spayed, then German Shepherd and cat friends become more of a possibility.
The first step is to feed the two animals in close proximity to each other. However, put your puppy on one side of a closed door and your kitten on the other. It is unlikely that the two animals will be comfortable seeing each other at this point, but they will start to pick up each other’s scent.
Don’t introduce the two animals until your puppy is able to follow commands to sit, stay and leave it. Once your puppy is at this stage, try a 5-minute meeting while your puppy is in its kennel. Keep this up for a couple of weeks, and each time gradually increase the amount of time that the animals are together until you reach 30 minutes.
The next stage is to do the same with your dog out of the kennel but on a leash. Continue the same process as before until reaching 30 minutes. Then follow the same process with your dog off the leash.
If your dog becomes aggressive at any point in this process, remove the cat and yourself from the situation so that your dog learns that type of behavior means it is left on its own.
A controlled introduction process is often the best way to manage to bring a new cat into a home that already has a GSD. Carve out some space for the cat, such as a spare bedroom. Make sure this space is a safe place for your cat and also contains water, litter, toys, and other things that help a cat feel comfortable. Start with total separation between the two animals.
There is no point introducing your German Shepherd to a cat until it has been trained. It needs to be able to stay, and importantly it needs to be able to stay calm when it meets the cat.
The first and most important step in a controlled introduction is the swapping of scents. Have one clean cloth for your cat and one for your GSD. Run the cloth on the areas of each animal where there is the most scent. For cats, this is the top of their head, cheeks, and chin. For dogs, this is their armpits and on their sides.
Once the cloths have captured each animal’s scent, place each cloth in the other animal’s environment. They should be left to discover this cloth themselves rather than you giving them the cloth. Watch how each animal reacts to the new scent. Does your cat become nervous? Does your GSD become over-excited?
Each day, do scent fresh clothes again and leave them near the animals. Ideally, keep this up until both animals are calm around the scented cloths. Then you are ready to move on to having the animals see each other in a controlled way.
⇒ Getting a new kitty? Check out my guide to How to Look after a Kitten, 6 Best Kitten Wet Food Options, and 8 Best Kitten Dry Food Options
Have your cat inside the house and your dog outside with some type of door with glass on it between them so that they can see each other. Do this daily for about 5 minutes at a time.
After a few days, do the same thing but inside the house. There will need to be some type of barrier between the two animals, like a pet gate, so that they can’t attack each other. If they behave well, give both pets treats.
The final stage is interaction with no barriers. However, your GSD should be on a leash. Start off with a very short leash. Then extend the leash as your cat gets more comfortable and if your GSD behaves. Treats should be incorporated here as a reward for good behavior.
Remember that your GSD will only chase a cat that is running. So it is important that your cat remains as calm as possible. It can be a good idea to start your cat off in a cat carrier in this stage and slowly remove them from the carrier based on your GSD’s behavior.
Take your time to remove the leash completely. When you have come this far, don’t rush to the final stage in case there is some aggressive behavior. Allow your cat to lead the process here – is it comfortable? And make sure you stay in the room the entire time.
The short answer is yes but. German Shepherd dogs and cats absolutely can get along, but they are not guaranteed to do so. Much will depend on the temperaments and past experiences of each animal. However, as an owner, there are many things you can do to encourage their relationship.
Start by following a set introductory process as above and following our key tips as you move through the different stages. Your pets will be best friends before you know it!
Amanda created and owns The Discerning Cat. A lifelong cat lover she is the proud parent of two Siberian cats, Alexei and Vladimir. She is passionate about understanding cats and different cat breeds.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
--------------------------------------------------
Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
German Shepherd,  breed of working dog developed in Germany from traditional herding and farm dogs. It is a strongly built and relatively long-bodied dog. Its dense coat consists of coarse, medium-long, straight or slightly wavy outer hair and soft short inner hair; its color ranges from white or pale gray to black and is commonly gray and black or black and tan. Noted for intelligence, alertness, and loyalty, the German Shepherd is widely used as a watchdog and a guide dog for the blind and serves in police and military roles.
The breed was created chiefly by a German cavalry captain, Max von Stephanitz. At a German dog show in 1899 he encountered a male herding dog of Thuringian stock whose energy, temperament, and wolflike appearance impressed him so much that he bought the dog on the spot. That same year, von Stephanitz and several like-minded associates founded the Verein für Deutsche Schäferhunde (SV; “Association for German Shepherd Dogs”) and designated his dog, which he named Horand von Grafrath, to serve as the breed’s prototype and primary stud. The SV then began to oversee the development of the breed to rigorous utility standards by crossing carefully chosen herding dogs chiefly from central and southern Germany. The breed was introduced to the United States in the early 1900s, and it was formally recognized by the American Kennel Club in 1908. The German Shepherd was known as the Alsatian in the United Kingdom from 1919 to 1977.
German Shepherds are large and athletic, requiring frequent exercise. Although they can be walked, they especially enjoy exercise that incorporates physical and mental challenges, such as the sport of agility, parkour, tracking, and protection work. They may chase balls and other toys, but they are only adequate retrievers. Most German Shepherds are strong swimmers. They can also be high jumpers, so fences should be at least 4 feet (122 cm) high, preferably higher.
German Shepherds are prone to skin problems that can cause itching, fur loss, and odours, so they may need extra attention during bathing. The double coat can shed considerably and may need daily brushing during shedding season. Otherwise, brushing once or twice a week will suffice. The dog is hardy in cold and moderately warm weather.
Like all large or heavy breeds, the German Shepherd should be fed a large-breed puppy food during its development. Research has shown that such foods result in a slower growth rate, which is associated with a reduced risk of hip dysplasia and possibly other joint disorders.
The breed is also susceptible to gastric dilatation-volvulus (GDV), a life-threatening condition in which the stomach twists within the body, cutting off the flow of food and water to the intestines and the flow of blood from the stomach back to the heart. Moreover, the breed’s characteristically deep but narrow chest appears to inhibit some dogs’ ability to belch and thereby relieve gas pressure in the stomach. A buildup of gas pressure can cause breathing difficulties, constrict blood flow, and even rupture the stomach wall, all of which may cause cell death in many tissues and send a dog into shock.
German Shepherds are, by and large, playful and energetic. Most make good companions for children and seniors alike. They are devoted, vigilant, and protective family members, and the breed is among the best for watchdog or protection duties. German Shepherds are often trained by military and police forces for tracking fugitives, assisting in search and rescue, and detecting illicit drugs, and they are popular service animals as well as actors in film and television. .
Even with their innate intelligence, German Shepherds need training and guidance lest their protective tendencies be misdirected. They enjoy training and learn quickly but can test a handler’s determination. Without a firm hand and clear guidance, a German Shepherd can take advantage of its owner and become the dominant one in the relationship. Some German Shepherds can be overly aggressive toward people and other pets in the household, but this behavior can be corrected with training. They will bark in response to perceived threats, but they are not overly noisy or excitable.
These are well established and widely accepted generalizations about the breed. Individual dogs may differ in behavior and temperament.
--------------------------------------------------
Also known as the Alsatian dog or GSD, the German Shepherd is a highly intelligent breed that was originally bred for herding sheep. With a dedicated and trainable temperament, these talented dogs make great family pets if you have the time to invest in them.
The German Shepherd’s temperament is intelligent, loyal and energetic.
The German Shepherd’s temperament is intelligent, loyal and energetic.
Smart and eager to please, the German Shepherd’s attentiveness and trainability has made it one of the most versatile breeds in the world.
More puppy training tips

Smart and eager to please, the German Shepherd’s attentiveness and trainability has made it one of the most versatile breeds in the world.
More puppy training tips

Find out more about the conditions that we see most in German Shepherds throughout their lifetime.
German Shepherds have a thick coat to protect them from the elements, so they do shed and need regular grooming.
Find more of our dog grooming tips to help your dog stay in the best condition.
German Shepherds have a thick coat to protect them from the elements, so they do shed and need regular grooming.
Your German Shepherd’s nutrition plan needs to include enough energy for a large, active dog and help them maintain a healthy weight.
Your German Shepherd’s nutrition plan needs to include enough energy for a large, active dog and help them maintain a healthy weight.
Considering buying or rehoming a German Shepherd? Before you find a puppy or adopt a GSD, here are a few important things to remember.
Considering buying or rehoming a German Shepherd? Before you find a puppy or adopt a GSD, here are a few important things to remember.
Loyal and loving, German Shepherds are usually thought to be good family pets who are gentle with children. However, as with all dog breeds, any time your German Shepherd spends with children should be supervised to make sure everyone is safe and happy.
Due to their history as service and guard dogs, German Shepherds have an unfair reputation as being dangerous or aggressive. Whilst the breed can be very vocal and protective, they are not known to be aggressive by nature and are in fact loving and gentle dogs who crave companionship. Aggression is generally a behavioural issue that will arise if your dog is left alone too often, becomes bored, is not exercised enough or is improperly trained. When looking for a German Shepherd puppy, it’s important to see the puppy with its mother and within the litter to get a good idea of its temperament and the behaviour that your dog may inherit.
Like many other dog breeds, German Shepherds can be trained to get on well with cats as long as they are introduced properly from an early age. German Shepherds are highly trainable, intelligent and loyal dogs who tend to form bonds with any person or animal they perceive as part of their “pack”, including cats.
German Shepherds are a member of the working breed group. Like their other working dog counterparts, German Shepherds are intelligent and highly trainable, with an eagerness to please. Because of this, German Shepherds can be sensitive and respond best to positive reinforcement methods with lots of praise but need set boundaries to keep their behaviour under control.
German Shepherds are incredibly loyal and sociable animals who crave the companionship of their owner. For this reason, they can be prone to separation anxiety and do best in households where someone will be around for most of the day. If you do have to leave your German Shepherd alone for a few hours make sure they have plenty of toys to keep them occupied and consider asking someone to check in on them.
Loyal and loving, German Shepherds are usually thought to be good family pets who are gentle with children. However, as with all dog breeds, any time your German Shepherd spends with children should be supervised to make sure everyone is safe and happy.
Due to their history as service and guard dogs, German Shepherds have an unfair reputation as being dangerous or aggressive. Whilst the breed can be very vocal and protective, they are not known to be aggressive by nature and are in fact loving and gentle dogs who crave companionship. Aggression is generally a behavioural issue that will arise if your dog is left alone too often, becomes bored, is not exercised enough or is improperly trained. When looking for a German Shepherd puppy, it’s important to see the puppy with its mother and within the litter to get a good idea of its temperament and the behaviour that your dog may inherit.
Like many other dog breeds, German Shepherds can be trained to get on well with cats as long as they are introduced properly from an early age. German Shepherds are highly trainable, intelligent and loyal dogs who tend to form bonds with any person or animal they perceive as part of their “pack”, including cats.
German Shepherds are a member of the working breed group. Like their other working dog counterparts, German Shepherds are intelligent and highly trainable, with an eagerness to please. Because of this, German Shepherds can be sensitive and respond best to positive reinforcement methods with lots of praise but need set boundaries to keep their behaviour under control.
German Shepherds are incredibly loyal and sociable animals who crave the companionship of their owner. For this reason, they can be prone to separation anxiety and do best in households where someone will be around for most of the day. If you do have to leave your German Shepherd alone for a few hours make sure they have plenty of toys to keep them occupied and consider asking someone to check in on them.
Find out more about some of the UK's most popular dog breeds and discover which breed could be your ideal canine companion with our breed selector quiz.
GSDs can sometimes suffer from gastrointestinal disorders and may be prone to genetic disorders like hip dysplasia. As some of these conditions are lifelong, it’s important that when choosing dog insurance that you check for any limits in your cover and understand how long conditions will be covered for.
--------------------------------------------------
