During a recent trip to the park, a dog owner felt at her wits’ end trying to quiet her German Shorthair Pointer who just wouldn’t stop yapping at a cat chilling in a tree.
It seemed like most of the other dogs didn’t care about the cat at all, and it made me wonder, can a GSP have a good relationship with felines?
The American Kennel Club (AKC) categorizes the GSP under the Sporting Group. Dogs in this category were primarily bred to assist hunters in retrieving small animals. The GSP has a high prey drive, and care should be taken with small animals like cats, birds, and rabbits.
To most cat owners, adding a Sporting dog to their household sounds like a horrible disaster just waiting to happen. Luckily, the situation might not appear as hopeless as you think – there are various factors that influence canine behavior.
Why do some dog breeds have no problem with cats while other canines need an extended adjustment period?
To get to the reality of this mystery, we’ll need a deeper look into the breed’s characteristics – such as breeding purpose, temperament, and personality – to understand why GSPs need the training to get along with felines.
The AKC lists GSPs in the Sporting class; you’ll sometimes hear people refer to them as Gun Dogs, which is the UKC classification. The term you use will be irrelevant; the critical factor is that GSPs were bred for a particular purpose.
Pointers, retrievers, spaniels, and setters are classified as Sporting breeds.
AKC describes these breeds as “naturally active and alert,” primarily used to assist hunters in finding small animals from where they fell after the shot cracked through the air.
The inherited hunting capability of the GSP is what makes them see small animals like cats (or birds, bunnies, etc.) as prey – and not regard them as friends or companions.
Generally, GSPs are excellent family dogs; they are active and need a lot of mental and physical stimulation. Because Sporting dogs have astounding physical abilities, this also means that they have a lot of energy to burn.
If you are not providing your dog with enough exercise to expel the energy, your poor cat will draw the short straw and be left to entertain the dog with a reluctant game of chase up a tree.
Some dogs, including GSPs, can become jealous when their owners give attention to other pets.
This breed is considered a Velcro dog, which is why they are prone to possessiveness (and sometimes, intolerance of the family cat). Velcro dogs usually become attached to one individual, and your GSPs might want your attention all to themselves.
One thing that most owners fail to consider is that despite breed temperament, dogs have individual personalities. Some dogs have chilled personalities, while others are as stubborn as a deaf mule; you can be either lucky or unlucky in this scenario.
If luck is on your side, it could very well be love at first sight for both canine and feline alike, and you’ll be the proud owner of a GSP that absolutely adores Mr. Mittens.
The scene playing out in this YouTube video should be enough to convince you that not all dog-cat relationships are doomed to fail.
An easy-going pooch would be ideal, but we need to prepare for the worst (since life isn’t always fair).
When you find yourself fresh out of luck, you’ll need to desensitize your GSP from the moment they put their tiny puppy paws on your floor.
Despite breed characteristics and unique personalities, dogs are a product of the guidance they receive from humans. Fortunately for all involved, training and socialization should not be an issue for your GSP.
GSPs are remarkably intelligent and highly trainable. With patience and a proper training regimen (we’ll have a look at some essential training tips below), you can train your GSP to coexist with your cat.
Training and socialization for any dog are crucial to prevent unwanted behavior.
Before you start your training, the most important thing you can do is to introduce your GSP pup to the cat using a five-step process. Remember to reward both pets for calm behavior.
If your GSP doesn’t seem interested in your cat at all, don’t push the matter. As pet owners, we’d love to see them as companions, but a disinterested GSP is a lot better than an over-interested one that chases your cat all around the house.
With a better grasp of why GSPs need a little extra guidance to accept small animals as part of the family, we can get into how to prevent this ingrained need to chase.
Desensitizing a Sporting breed will take some time, but if you follow the tips below, your GSP and cat should be able to get along without a problem.
If all else fails, you can look into dog trainers (or behaviorists) to assess the situation and advise on the best way forward. These professionals have been around the block a couple of times and know the tricks of the trade.
A great thing about dog trainers is that they work on the relationship between owner and dog to help you get (and maintain) control over your dog – in a way establishing yourself as the “pack leader” to better handle challenging canine personalities.
GSPs are a Sporting breed with a predisposition to chase smaller animals. This breed is not usually the first choice for households with cats due to their breeding purpose. However, individuality is an important factor that most people tend to overlook.
Cat owners might caution you against getting a German Shorthair Pointer if you have a cat. But, keep in mind that you can undoubtedly take control of the situation with training while the pup is young.
meastt09
An Owner and a huge fan of GSP's! I have owned my GSP for 7 years now and learned so many things along the way to share with you all about German Shorthaired Pointers!
German Shorthaired Pointer vs Portuguese Water Dog
Pondering the addition of a furry companion to your world but stuck on choosing between a German Shorthaired Pointer and a Portuguese Water Dog?



These two breeds may seem similar at first glance,...
Rhodesian Ridgeback Vs German Shorthaired Pointer
Explore the differences and similarities between Rhodesian Ridgebacks and German Shorthaired Pointers in this engaging article. Discover which furry companion would best suit your lifestyle based on...
--------------------------------------------------
Perhaps the most popular of the HPR breeds, the German Short Haired Pointer is the consummate all-rounder: excellent on point, a soft mouthed Retriever and thorough in his search for game. The breed's ancestors include the Spanish Pointer, German bird dogs and an infusion of English Pointer for speed. Unexaggerated, his conformation and coat equip him to be the perfect hunting machine.
Dogs that were originally trained to find live game and/or to retrieve game that had been shot and wounded. This group is divided into four categories - Retrievers, Spaniels, Hunt/Point/Retrieve, Pointers and Setters - although many of the breeds are capable of doing the same work as the other sub-groups. They make good companions, their temperament making them ideal all-round family dogs.
Category 0: Breeds with no NBS colour registration options. Read more about Colour Watch.
Breed standard colour means that the colour is accepted within the breed standard and is a traditional and well-known colour in this breed.
Breed standard colours in this breed include:
'Other' means you consider your puppy to be a colour not currently known within the breed and one that does not appear on either the breed standard or non-breed standard list. In this instance you would be directed through our registrations process to contact a breed club and/or council to support you on identifying and correctly listing the new colour.
Non-breed-standard colour means that the colour is not accepted within the breed standard and whilst some dogs within the breed may be this colour it is advised to only select a dog that fits within the breed standards for all points.
Colour is only one consideration when picking a breed or individual dog, health and temperament should always be a priority over colour.
Whether you're considering buying a German Shorthaired Pointer puppy or breeding from your dog, it's important to understand the health issues that may affect the breed and how they can be managed or avoided.
Best Practice schemes and tests
These tests address conditions that are still significant for the breed, though they might be less common or newly identified, and research is ongoing to determine their full impact
To support the breed’s health, responsible breeders should ensure they complete all tests in best practice. Following our Best Practice guidelines means completing both the Good Practice and Best Practice tests for your breed.
Click here to find out more about The Kennel Club's health standard
Find out about a particular dog's results
Please visit our Health Test Results Finder to discover the DNA or screening scheme test results for any dog on The Kennel Club's Breed or Activity Register.
You can also view the inbreeding coefficient calculation for a puppy's parents, or for a dog you're thinking of breeding from.
We don’t currently offer a breed-specific DNA testing package for this breed, but we have a wide selection of individual DNA tests available. To find out more and view our full selection, click here.
The Breed Health and Conservation Plans
Our breed health and conservations plans (BHCPs) use evidence and data to help us understand the health issues found in each pedigree dog breed. These plans help breeders and owners identify health and welfare problems and use information, health tests and health schemes to avoid passing on those problems to future puppies. They also support and provide breeders with tools and specialist expertise to help manage genetic diversity, understand the impacts of close breeding, and find the best ways to preserve the population of their breed.
Working together for the breed
We’ve worked with breed clubs and breed representatives to gather all available evidence to help us determine the priority concerns for the breed and decide how we can work together to manage and reduce these problems.
The full evidence base is available at the discretion of the breed clubs, however if you would like to seek access to the full report, please contact our health team.
Health (The Kennel Club)
If you have any concerns about a particular health condition in your breed then you may wish to speak to your vet or you could contact your breed health co-ordinator.Breed health co-ordinators are individuals working on behalf of breed clubs and councils who are advocates for the health and welfare of their chosen breed. They acts as a spokesperson on matters of health and will collaborate with The Kennel Club on any health concerns the breed may have.To contact your breed health co-ordinator please email:

Category 1
Currently no points of concern specific to this breed have been identified for special attention by judges, other than those covered routinely by The Kennel Club's breed standard.
There are a number of The Kennel Club's rules and regulations that may prevent a litter from being registered, find out about our general and breed specific breeding restrictions below.
There are not currently any additional breed specific restrictions in place for this breed.
Looking for a German Shorthaired Pointer? Explore our list of puppies and rescue dogs for sale near you.
Use our Find a Club service where you can locate breed clubs that can offer support and advice.
The Kennel Club's Find a Puppy service provides contact details for breeders who have puppies available. Let's help you find your new best friend.
At Kennel Club Pet Insurance, we want you to focus on getting the best possible treatment for your dog without worrying about the cost.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: brixiv, Unsplash
Last Updated on February 28, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Height:
21 – 25 inches
Weight:
45 – 70 pounds
Lifespan:
10 – 12 years
Colors:
Liver, liver and white, liver roan, black, black and white, black roan
Suitable for:
Active, experienced dog owners, families with older kids
Temperament:
Energetic, friendly, smart, eager, good with kids, a bit stubborn
Several centuries ago, German hunters painstakingly developed a new bird dog breed that was smart, fast, and big enough to hunt larger prey if needed. From their efforts, the German Shorthaired Pointer was born. Today, the “GSP,” as they’re frequently referred to, is one of the most popular breeds in the United States.
Although their energy levels and occasional stubbornness can make them a challenge for first-time dog owners, the German Shorthaired Pointer makes a charming, playful companion with the proper guidance and appropriate amount of exercise. In this article, we’ll cover what you need to know about owning a German Shorthaired Pointer, including their temperament, care, and history.

German Shorthaired Pointers are currently ranked in the top 10 most popular purebred dogs in the United States. Because of that, you’ll likely have several options for finding a puppy to add to your family.
If you choose to buy a GSP from a breeder, carefully research your choices. Popular breeds are always a temptation for unethical breeders who may not prioritize producing the healthiest dogs. German Shorthaired Pointers are prone to several inherited health conditions, and responsible breeders will always screen for them.
If you prefer to adopt your new pet, look for a rescue group specializing in German Shorthaired Pointers or possibly hunting dogs more broadly. Puppies may be harder to come by from these groups, but if you’re more flexible about the age of your new dog, you should be able to find a GSP to adopt. You can also check your local animal shelter or humane society.
German Shorthaired Pointer puppies have endless energy and need plenty of exercise. However, you don’t want to put too much stress on their growing bodies, so check with your vet about ideal activities for them at this age. However, you can get started on training and socializing your puppy as soon as they come home.
Regular routines and structure will help your young German Shorthaired Pointer learn what behavior is expected of them. Without it, the energetic dog can be a handful to live with.

Originally bred as hunting dogs, German Shorthaired Pointers love humans and bond closely with their families. They are smart and typically eager to please, but they have an independent streak that can make training challenging.
German Shorthaired Pointers are not a hands-off breed. They require a lot of attention and can be demanding if they aren’t getting it. Without consistent training and regular exercise, they can also become destructive.
In the right environment, German Shorthaired Pointers make amazing pets, especially for active owners. They are loving, protective, energetic, and playful dogs. With the proper motivation and guidance, they learn quickly and are excellent partners for those who enjoy hunting or participating in field trials and other canine sports.
German Shorthaired Pointers have the energy and personality to make excellent playmates for kids. However, they can be too energetic and rambunctious for small children. They are best suited for families with older kids who enjoy physical activity. German Shorthaired Pointers and energetic kids are a great match because they can help wear each other out!
Of course, you should still supervise interactions between a German Shorthaired Pointer and children. Unfortunately, the German Shorthaired Pointer is not a good fit for families who don’t have a fenced yard or access to safe outdoor space for running. Without this outdoor access, providing enough exercise can be hard.
Busy families should also consider whether they have the necessary time to devote to training and exercising a GSP.
German Shorthaired Pointers usually get along with other dogs, although there are exceptions to this rule. The combination of hunting instincts, excessive energy, and a protective streak can lead some to be aggressive or confrontational toward other dogs. Early socialization with other dogs will certainly help.
With their hunting ancestry, German Shorthaired Pointers may chase cats or smaller dogs. They should also be kept separate from small exotic pets, especially birds.

Before you search for a German Shorthaired Pointer puppy, you’ll want to be sure your whole household is prepared for the new pet first. Here’s what you need to know when owning a German Shorthaired Pointer.
German Shorthaired Pointers typically don’t have any special diet requirements. They can eat any nutritionally balanced food formulated for their life stage. If your dog is incredibly active and regularly participates in hunting or canine sports, they may need a higher protein diet to fuel their muscles.
Talk to your veterinarian to help balance your German Shorthaired Pointer’s nutritional needs. While the dogs aren’t prone to obesity, you’ll still want to feed the correct number of calories each day. Your vet can help you calculate how much your dog should eat based on their age, size, and activity level.
To keep a German Shorthaired Pointer fit and happy, they should get at least 1-2 hours of exercise daily. Strolling around the neighborhood typically isn’t enough activity for them either. Plan on long walks, jogs, hikes, or running off-leash in a safe area instead.
German Shorthaired Pointers are true athletes who enjoy agility, field trials, dock diving, and tracking competitions. If they don’t have a healthy outlet for their energy, German Shorthaired Pointers will get bored and frustrated and develop destructive behaviors. Meeting their daily exercise demands is a must, and it can be quite a commitment.
German Shorthaired Pointers were bred to work alongside humans, and they’re capable of learning quickly. However, training a GSP can be challenging because they’re also independent at times. They are usually a better fit for more experienced dog owners. Firm, consistent, yet positive training methods will be the most successful.
Generally, keeping a German Shorthaired Pointer well-groomed isn’t time-consuming. Their short coats shed year-round, with seasonally heavier hair loss. You’ll want to brush them every few days or as needed to keep the shedding under control.
Check your GSP’s ears frequently and clean them as needed, especially if the dog plays outside often or swims. Keep their nails trimmed short to prevent them from getting snagged and torn. Finally, talk to your vet about options for preventative dental care.
Like nearly all popular purebred dogs, German Shorthaired Pointers are prone to several inherited health conditions. Before purchasing a puppy from a breeder, ask to see the family health history and the results of genetic screening tests.
Male German Shorthaired Pointers are usually taller and heavier than females. Generally, male dogs are more energetic, bold, and protective than females. Unneutered males are prone to wandering in search of females in heat and are more likely to display unpleasant behaviors like frequent urine marking or humping.
Female German Shorthaired Pointers go into heat about twice a year and must be kept separated from unneutered males during those periods. Both male and female German Shorthaired Pointers can make wonderful pets, and the choice between the two sexes often comes down to personal preference.

The development of the German Shorthaired Pointer dates to the 1600s. However, it wasn’t until the 1800s that German breeders were finally satisfied with their shorthaired Pointer. Breeds such as the Spanish Pointer, Hannover Hound, and English Pointer all made their way into the bloodline of the German Shorthaired Pointer.
Although they’re well-known for their hunting skills, German Shorthaired Pointers are also incredible athletes. Marvin’s 75 titles are testaments to the breed’s versatility.
The American Kennel Club recognized the German Shorthaired Pointer in 1930. In their native Germany, the German Wirehaired Pointer is more popular than the Shorthair. However, Americans prefer the shorthaired version.

German Shorthaired Pointers are a fine example of the truth that not every breed suits every living situation. As sweet, adorable, and entertaining as they can be, the German Shorthaired Pointer is not the dog for everyone.
Keeping all their energy channeled appropriately is more work than inexperienced dog owners might realize. German Shorthaired Pointers plenty of exercise, patience, and attention, and it’s important you know what you’re getting into before you welcome one into your home.
Featured Image Credit: brixiv, Unsplash
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Elizabeth Gray is a lifelong lover of all animals great and small. She got her first cat at 5 years old and at 14, she started working for her local veterinarian. Elizabeth spent more than 20 years working as a veterinary nurse before stepping away to become a stay-at-home parent to her daughter. Now, she is excited to share her hard-earned knowledge (literally--she has scars) with the readers. Elizabeth lives in Iowa  with her family, including her two furry kids, Linnard, a husky mix and Algernon, the worldʻs most patient cat. When not writing, she enjoys reading, watching all sports but especially soccer, and spending time  outdoors  with her family.
My husband and I have a German shorthaired pointer. She turned five today and out of about eight breeds that we’ve had combined, this is the best dog we’ve ever had. We are in our 70s, but she gets plenty of exercise and loves to run and hunt with my husband . Super super smart and easy to train, she never gets into anything and is the best companion, the most loving lap dog you’d ever want;  if you want an all-around great dog, get a German shorthaired pointer. I can’t recommend them enough.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Menu
"This is our German Shorthaired Pointer, Fritz. He is 2 years old and is the perfect dog for us. Fritz is loyal, obedient, respectful and active! The high point of Fritz's day is the long run we take every afternoon. He has a voracious appetite and never turns down a meal. Fritz is enrolled in agility training and loves to run the obstacle course. Fritz's best quality is his respect for authority. We can simply tell him what to do in a soft, calm voice, and he will do it gladly. He knows his boundaries and always does his best to please us."
jur-muhân shawrt-haird poin-ter
The German Shorthaired Pointer is a versatile all-purpose gundog. The head is in proportion to the body. The skull is slightly round on top, broad and arched on the sides. The length of the muzzle should be equal to the length of the skull. The muzzle is long with a slight stop that can be viewed from the side. The large nose is brown with wide open nostrils. The almond-shaped, medium-sized eyes are dark brown. The high-set ears are broad, hanging close to the head. The teeth should meet in a scissors bite. The chest is deep. The tail is docked to about 40% of its length. Note: docking tails is illegal in most parts of Europe. The compact feet are webbed. Dewclaws on the front feet may be removed. The skin is tight. The short coat is thick and rough to the touch. It is slightly longer on the underside of the tail and the back edge of the hips, and softer, shorter and thinner on the head and ears. Coat colors include solid liver, liver and white, liver ticked or patches, white ticked or liver roan.
One of the most energetic breeds, the German Shorthaired Pointer is a hunting dog by nature. Protective, clever, eager and willing to please, it is very fond of its human family. Happy-go-lucky, it loves nothing more than to engage in some type of constructive activity with its owners such as a long walk, jog, hike, hunt, or a game of Frisbee. This breed is not suited to life in a kennel. Faithful, spirited and friendly, it likes and mixes well with children. Dominancy and energy levels vary slightly from puppy to puppy even within the same litter, however those bred for working in high-performance field competitions usually require more activity than the average Shorthair, but are all still very high energy dogs who need a lot of daily exercise. Best suited for an active family. When they lack in exercise they can become high strung and frustrated. The GSP will not listen if it senses that it is stronger minded than its owner, however it will also not respond well to harsh discipline. The GSP needs an owner who displays a natural air of authority providing firm, but calm, confident and consistent with rules it must be made to follow. The GSP crave order and need structure in its life. If this breed lacks in either exercise or leadership it can develop separation anxiety and possibly become destructive and nervous. Well adjusted, stable minded GSPs who receive enough mental and physical activity along with a balance of consistent leadership will get along with other dogs and cats. This breed likes to bark and can be reserved with strangers. Socialize well. They will be in their glory if they are actually used for what they were bred for and taken on hunting trips.
Height: Males 23 - 25 inches (59 - 64 cm) Females 21 - 23 inches (53 - 58 cm)
    Weight: Males 55 - 70 pounds (25 - 32 kg) Females 45 - 60 pounds (20 - 27 kg)
Usually a healthy breed but some are prone to epilepsy, hip dysplasia, hermaphrodism and lymphedema. Some minor concerns are CHD, entropion, gastric torsion, VWD, pannus, OCD. Prone to mast cell tumors.
This breed is not recommended for apartment life and does best with a large yard and an active, athletic family. It may be able to jump any fence that is lower than 6 feet tall. Under exercised, bored GSPs are great escape artists.
Exercise is of paramount importance for these tireless, energetic animals. They are more than a match for even the most active family and they should not be taken on as family pets unless they can be guaranteed plenty of vigorous exercise. They need to be taken on a daily, brisk, long walk,  jog or run alongside you when you bicycle. If under-exercised, this breed can become restless and destructive.
About 12-15 years
About 7 to 12 puppies
The smooth coat of the Pointer is very easy to groom. Just brush regularly with a firm bristle brush and bathe only when necessary. A rub with a piece of toweling or chamois will leave the coat gleaming. Check the feet also, especially after the dog has been exercising or working. Dry the dog thoroughly after hunting to prevent chilling. Examine the ears regularly. This breed is an average shedder.
While not proven, some think that the German Shorthaired Pointer is a descendant of different types of German hunting, scent hounds, trail and track dogs, such as the Old Spanish Pointer,  German Bird Dog, Hounds of St. Hubert (Bloodhound types), and the Foxhound. Later the English Pointer was crossed in to add speed and endurance. German hunters were after an all-purpose utility dog that not only had a good nose, but could point, track, was an excellent retriever and gundog, in both field and water for both feather and fur. They also wanted a dog that was an excellent weekend hunter, but made a good family companion and watchdog. The German Shorthaired Pointer was recognized by the AKC in 1930. The German Shorthaired Pointer contributed in the development of the German Wirehaired Pointer. The German Shorthaired Pointer's talents are show dog, obedience, gundog, retrieving, tracking trials, field trials and hunting tests.
Gun Dog, AKC Sporting
Yukon the GSP as a puppy at 8 weeks old
Sammy the German Shorthaired Pointer at 12 years old pointing—"Despite his age Sammy is still full of energy."
Vik the German Shorthaired Pointer at 2 years old—"Vik is an incredibly energetic companion and is quite the athlete. He LOVES to hunt! Nothing will prevent him from reaching his goals. He is very diligent and fierce in all of his activities. He dives into water with all of his enthusiasm...bushes, too! But at the end of the day, he just wants his own bed inside to enjoy with the family."
Vik the German Shorthaired Pointer at 2 years old jumping off of the dock into the water
"Our German Shorthair Pointer Sadie has been a major part of our family. She is shown here at 2 years old. When we go for drives she goes with (best dog for traveling). She loves to pheasant hunt...minute we get the guns ready she is sitting by the door waiting. She loves her walks, fetches balls (she tries to get 3 tennis balls in her mouth). She also bats around a tennis ball on the floor like a cat. We take her out in the country for long walks. This is her pride and joy. She loves to point at birds, bugs and anything that smaller than her. She loves to cuddle up with us in a blanket...okay she is spoiled. But she definitely knows she is loved. I do daycare in my home. All the kids love her and she can't wait for them to come everyday!"
"This is our 6.5-week-old German Shorthaired Pointer puppy Hudson while out for some exercise and "finding" some Pheasant wings that I placed in the grass. He had a blast and loved running through the tall grass."
Sadie the German Shorthair Pointer puppy at about 4 months old
Redi Turkio Oaze, 2 years old
"This is a picture of my German Shorthair Pointer Sasami. She is 10 months old in this picture. Sasami is a lovable, goofy dog who loves to run and play. She enjoys chasing birds, which she was doing in this picture, but rarely barks at them. She is a very friendly and outgoing dog. She loves to play with my 2 boys, Brandon and Kane. She isn't happy unless she is with her people. She never growls and loves being the center of attention. Being a fan of Cesar Millan, I understand the importance of daily exercise for high-energy dogs and I make sure Sasami gets plenty of exercise everyday."
"Abby is 3 months old in the photo and has become a wonderful addition to our family. She is a very loving dog and enjoys spending all her time with the family. She likes to retrieve balls and is being trained to hunt.  Abby has a lot of energy and requires at least one good walk a day.  We would like to get her a backpack to wear while walking so she can get more exercise and get some of her energy out while on her walks. She has learned how to sit for treats and is crate trained.  Her markings are the most beautiful thing. Her ears are so soft and she looks at you with those droopy brown eyes to steal your heart. My son Cole, 13 years old, chose Abby for a companion and a hunting dog. They have a bond that can only be described as "man's best friend.""
Cali, German Shorthaired Pointer as a puppy at 8 weeks about to take a nap
--------------------------------------------------
Home » Large Dog Breeds » German Shorthaired Pointer: Breed Information With Pictures
This post may contain affiliate links. If you click and buy we may make a commission, at no additional charge to you. Please see our disclosure policy for more details.
In many ways, the German shorthaired pointer is the quintessential sporting dog, as they excel in just about every hunting context imaginable. However, while they’re certainly popular among sportsmen and sportswomen, German shorthaired pointers also make good pets for families that are willing and able to provide the things these lovable, high-energy dogs require.
We’ll talk more about German shorthaired pointers below, including information about their physique, personality, history and the common health concerns of the breed. This will hopefully help you decide if a German shorthaired pointer would be a good fit for your family.
Also Read: Large Dog Breeds List A-Z with Pictures
Table of Content
German shorthaired pointers were initially developed to be an all-around hunting dog, who could perform a variety of different tasks. Spanish pointers and bloodhounds both appear at numerous points in their family tree, and these influences can still be seen in modern GSPs, given their work ethic and strong nose.
The first German shorthaired pointers are thought to have been bred in Germany in the late 1600s. But while they were quite popular in Europe over the following years, they only made their way to the U.S. in the 1920s. They gained AKC recognition soon after, in 1930.
German Shorthaired Pointers are essentially Lab-sized dogs, but, when compared side-by-side, the GSP is often slightly taller and leaner. They usually stand about 2 feet tall at the shoulder and weigh 45 to 75 pounds. As with most other breeds, male GSPs grow slightly larger than their female counterparts.
Traditionally, German shorthaired pointers have their tails docked. They’re normally kept at about 40% of their unaltered length. However, there is no reason to dock your GSP’s tail if you don’t want to.
German shorthaired pointers are slightly skittish around strangers, but when given time and space to familiarize themselves with unfamiliar people, they usually make friends readily. They’re fantastic with family children, but they can be skittish around kids they’ve not yet met.
German shorthaired pointers get along with familiar dogs relatively well, especially when they’re of similar size. They may, however, be extremely aggressive toward cats or small dogs, given their high prey drive. They are also prone to howling and barking at even the most minor disturbances – these are not good dogs for those with noise-averse neighbors.
German shorthaired pointers are often healthy and live long lives, but the breed is susceptible to a number of mild to serious health problems. You can avoid some of these by only purchasing German shorthaired pointers from breeders who implement strict health-screening protocols in their breeding programs, but others are not easy to avoid by any means.
Nevertheless, it is important to familiarize yourself with some of the most notable health problems that afflict German shorthaired pointers.
For the most part, German shorthaired pointers are pretty easy dogs to care for and they don’t present any serious care challenges. We’ll talk a little more about the things you’ll need to do to care for a German shorthaired pointer below.
German shorthaired pointers will usually thrive on just about any high-quality dog food that meets the AAFCO guidelines. However, because they are “tweeners,” who may or may not be considered “big” dogs, you’ll want to discuss your choice of food with your vet.
The issue is that large dogs (and puppies who will become large dogs) have slightly different nutritional needs than small and medium-sized breeds. For example, the calcium and caloric content of large-breed dog foods often differ from those designed for smaller breeds. So, you’ll want to discuss the subject of food with your vet before making a choice.
If you do decide a large-breed dog food is right for your pet, be sure to check out our comprehensive review of the subject to see some of the best options available.
View Latest Price
 
2. Exercise Requirements
Providing a German shorthaired pointer with enough opportunities to exercise is likely the most challenging aspect of their care. A couple of 20- to 30-minute walks a day won’t suffice for these high-octane dogs. German shorthaired pointers are high-energy canines who need a minimum of one hour of playtime every day, and most would be happier still if given the chance to run around for twice this long.
Ideally, you’ll have a large, securely fenced yard that gives your new pet plenty of room to roam. If not, you’ll need to be willing to load your new pet in the car and head to the dog park every day. If you fail to provide constructive ways for your GSP to burn off some excess energy, depression, frustration and destructive behaviors are essentially guaranteed to manifest.
Fortunately, it’s not hard to get a German shorthaired pointer some exercise, as they love to play in a variety of different ways. Most German shorthairs love to play fetch, and they generally love swimming too. Most also love wrestling and playing with other dogs with whom they’re familiar.
3. Training Requirements
All dogs must be housetrained and receive basic obedience training. The former is important for obvious reasons, and the latter will help keep your dog well-behaved and safe. Fortunately, German shorthaired pointers are very smart dogs, who are generally very easy to train.
Go ahead and start house training your new pet as soon as you bring him home. A crate will help in this process, and it’ll also prove helpful in a number of other circumstances, so make sure you pick one up as soon as you adopt or purchase your dog. As long as you dedicate yourself to the task and remain consistent in your approach, you should be able to housebreak your new pet in a few short weeks.
Although you can start housebreaking your German shorthaired pointer as soon as you get him, you’ll want to wait to begin basic obedience training until he’s about 7 or 8 weeks of age. Start with simple commands, such as “sit” and “lay,” and work up to more complicated tasks as he learns.
4. Grooming
German shorthaired pointers have minimal grooming requirements. Their hair isn’t long enough to brush in most cases, although you can always do so to knock some of his soon-to-be-shed hair off while you’re outdoors – your pet will probably enjoy the process too. That said, German shorthaired pointers don’t shed very heavily anyway.
You’ll also need to keep your pet’s teeth brushed and nails trimmed. Start performing these tasks while your pet is young, so he will get used to these procedures and accept them as a normal part of life. You’ll also want to bathe your pet about once a month or so, as well as anytime he becomes dirty. Most GSPs love the water, so they rarely protest bath time very much.


German Shorthaired Pointer Rescue Groups & Breeders
German shorthaired pointers may not be as popular as German shepherds of Labrador retrievers are, but they are a relatively common breed. This means you shouldn’t have too much trouble finding one for your family.
You may be able to find a German shorthaired pointer to adopt, although you’ll likely be limited to older animals. There are German shorthaired rescue organizations in most parts of the U.S., so you can start your search by simply Googling rescue groups in your area. However, the National German Shorthaired Pointer Rescue is a great resource no matter where you live, and they service all areas.
On the other hand, if you’d like to purchase a German shorthaired pointer puppy from a breeder, you may want to check out the AKC’s Puppyfinder.
Common Questions about German Shorthaired Pointers
Prospective dog owners often have a number of questions about their new pet, no matter what breed they intend on adding to their family. We can’t answer all of the questions people may have about German shorthaired pointers, but we will try to address a few of the most common ones below.
Q. Are German shorthaired pointers hyper? Ans. “Hyper” or “hyperactive” may not be the words we’d choose to describe this breed, but German shorthaired pointers are undoubtedly high-energy dogs. They aren’t a good choice for owners who simply want a dog that’ll lounge around on the couch. They need one to two hours of exercise every day to remain healthy and happy.  Q. Are German shorthaired pointers good with kids? Ans. Provided that they are properly socialized and trained, German shorthaired pointers are usually good with children. They’ll certainly make great playmates for family kids, but they may be a bit shy around unfamiliar children until they get to know them. Nevertheless, supervision is always required, as large dogs may injure children accidentally.  Q. Are German shorthaired pointers protective? Ans. German shorthaired pointers are vocal dogs, who won’t hesitate to bark at anything unusual or that they perceive as threatening. However, they’re unlikely to physically intervene in emergency situations.  Q. Are German shorthaired pointers smart? Ans. German shorthaired pointers are very intelligent dogs. They’re usually easy to train and they require plenty of mental stimulation to remain happy and enjoy a good quality of life.  Q. Do German shorthaired pointers shed a lot? Ans. All dogs shed, including German shorthaired pointers. However, GSPs don’t shed very heavily and they have relatively short coats. Accordingly, they may make a good choice for owners who have allergies or simply want to maintain a tidy home.  Q. Do German shorthaired pointers like to swim? Ans. All dogs are individuals, who exhibit their own preferences and personality quirks, but most German shorthaired pointers love to swim. In fact, this is a great way to give your pet exercise, as it burns a ton of calories, yet doesn’t cause the wear and tear on a dog’s joints the way some other types of activity do.  
Wrapping Up: Is a German Shorthaired Pointer Right for Your Family?
German shorthaired pointers are fantastic dogs, who have a lot of great traits – there’s a reason they’ve become the AKC’s 11th most popular breed. They are sweet, loving, loyal and gentle, and they are one of the most playful breeds in the world.
German shorthaired pointers are generally healthy dogs, and they don’t present very many serious challenges for their owners. They also get along very well with kids in the family (as well as other children they’ve had the chance to meet) and make great companions for families on the go.
It is important that you think carefully about your ability to provide sufficient exercise for these dogs, as they have energy levels that are truly difficult to appreciate until you’ve met one in person. In fact, some authorities discourage first-time owners from selecting this breed, as they can become quite challenging if not provided with appropriate amounts of exercise.
But if you are sure that you’ll be willing to keep your GSP well-exercised and stimulated, they can make a great choice for many families.


[wpdatatable id=4  responsive= stack responsive_breakpoint=”phone”/]
Forrest WebberForrest is a lover of dogs, the wild outdoors, deep mysterious conversations… and coffee. He is the owner of several websites, including Canine Weekly. He resides in Austin, Texas.
Providing a German shorthaired pointer with enough opportunities to exercise is likely the most challenging aspect of their care. A couple of 20- to 30-minute walks a day won’t suffice for these high-octane dogs. German shorthaired pointers are high-energy canines who need a minimum of one hour of playtime every day, and most would be happier still if given the chance to run around for twice this long.
Ideally, you’ll have a large, securely fenced yard that gives your new pet plenty of room to roam. If not, you’ll need to be willing to load your new pet in the car and head to the dog park every day. If you fail to provide constructive ways for your GSP to burn off some excess energy, depression, frustration and destructive behaviors are essentially guaranteed to manifest.
Fortunately, it’s not hard to get a German shorthaired pointer some exercise, as they love to play in a variety of different ways. Most German shorthairs love to play fetch, and they generally love swimming too. Most also love wrestling and playing with other dogs with whom they’re familiar.
All dogs must be housetrained and receive basic obedience training. The former is important for obvious reasons, and the latter will help keep your dog well-behaved and safe. Fortunately, German shorthaired pointers are very smart dogs, who are generally very easy to train.
Go ahead and start house training your new pet as soon as you bring him home. A crate will help in this process, and it’ll also prove helpful in a number of other circumstances, so make sure you pick one up as soon as you adopt or purchase your dog. As long as you dedicate yourself to the task and remain consistent in your approach, you should be able to housebreak your new pet in a few short weeks.
Although you can start housebreaking your German shorthaired pointer as soon as you get him, you’ll want to wait to begin basic obedience training until he’s about 7 or 8 weeks of age. Start with simple commands, such as “sit” and “lay,” and work up to more complicated tasks as he learns.
German shorthaired pointers have minimal grooming requirements. Their hair isn’t long enough to brush in most cases, although you can always do so to knock some of his soon-to-be-shed hair off while you’re outdoors – your pet will probably enjoy the process too. That said, German shorthaired pointers don’t shed very heavily anyway.
You’ll also need to keep your pet’s teeth brushed and nails trimmed. Start performing these tasks while your pet is young, so he will get used to these procedures and accept them as a normal part of life. You’ll also want to bathe your pet about once a month or so, as well as anytime he becomes dirty. Most GSPs love the water, so they rarely protest bath time very much.
German shorthaired pointers may not be as popular as German shepherds of Labrador retrievers are, but they are a relatively common breed. This means you shouldn’t have too much trouble finding one for your family.
You may be able to find a German shorthaired pointer to adopt, although you’ll likely be limited to older animals. There are German shorthaired rescue organizations in most parts of the U.S., so you can start your search by simply Googling rescue groups in your area. However, the National German Shorthaired Pointer Rescue is a great resource no matter where you live, and they service all areas.
On the other hand, if you’d like to purchase a German shorthaired pointer puppy from a breeder, you may want to check out the AKC’s Puppyfinder.
Prospective dog owners often have a number of questions about their new pet, no matter what breed they intend on adding to their family. We can’t answer all of the questions people may have about German shorthaired pointers, but we will try to address a few of the most common ones below.
Ans. “Hyper” or “hyperactive” may not be the words we’d choose to describe this breed, but German shorthaired pointers are undoubtedly high-energy dogs. They aren’t a good choice for owners who simply want a dog that’ll lounge around on the couch. They need one to two hours of exercise every day to remain healthy and happy.
Ans. Provided that they are properly socialized and trained, German shorthaired pointers are usually good with children. They’ll certainly make great playmates for family kids, but they may be a bit shy around unfamiliar children until they get to know them. Nevertheless, supervision is always required, as large dogs may injure children accidentally.
Ans. German shorthaired pointers are vocal dogs, who won’t hesitate to bark at anything unusual or that they perceive as threatening. However, they’re unlikely to physically intervene in emergency situations.
Ans. German shorthaired pointers are very intelligent dogs. They’re usually easy to train and they require plenty of mental stimulation to remain happy and enjoy a good quality of life.
Ans. All dogs shed, including German shorthaired pointers. However, GSPs don’t shed very heavily and they have relatively short coats. Accordingly, they may make a good choice for owners who have allergies or simply want to maintain a tidy home.
Ans. All dogs are individuals, who exhibit their own preferences and personality quirks, but most German shorthaired pointers love to swim. In fact, this is a great way to give your pet exercise, as it burns a ton of calories, yet doesn’t cause the wear and tear on a dog’s joints the way some other types of activity do.
German shorthaired pointers are fantastic dogs, who have a lot of great traits – there’s a reason they’ve become the AKC’s 11th most popular breed. They are sweet, loving, loyal and gentle, and they are one of the most playful breeds in the world.
German shorthaired pointers are generally healthy dogs, and they don’t present very many serious challenges for their owners. They also get along very well with kids in the family (as well as other children they’ve had the chance to meet) and make great companions for families on the go.
It is important that you think carefully about your ability to provide sufficient exercise for these dogs, as they have energy levels that are truly difficult to appreciate until you’ve met one in person. In fact, some authorities discourage first-time owners from selecting this breed, as they can become quite challenging if not provided with appropriate amounts of exercise.
But if you are sure that you’ll be willing to keep your GSP well-exercised and stimulated, they can make a great choice for many families.
Forrest is a lover of dogs, the wild outdoors, deep mysterious conversations… and coffee. He is the owner of several websites, including Canine Weekly. He resides in Austin, Texas.
Hello. I really liked your article.
I dream of this breed of dog. But I have no way of keeping such a dog in an ordinary small town apartment.
I’ve always liked big dogs more than small dogs. Because big dogs can also protect you in a threatening situation. And they are also smarter.
I had a similar breed of dog in my childhood, I loved this dog very much. I hope I will soon have the opportunity to get a dog German Shorthaired Pointers. When I move into the house.
--------------------------------------------------
