The Giant Schnauzer originated in the Wurttenberg and Bavaria sections of Germany. During the years around the turn of the century, both smooth German Pinscher and coarse-haired Schnauzer pups appeared in the same litters. The German Pinscher Schnauzer Club initiated a policy requiring proof of three generations of pure coarse-haired Schnauzer coats for registration. This quickly helped set type and made them a distinct breed from the German Pinscher. These Schnauzers were given the name Standard Schnauzer. These Standard Schnauzers were crossed with the black Great Dane and the Bouvier des Flandres to form the Giant Schnauzer breed. The Schnauzer name derived from the German word “Schnauze,” which means “muzzle.”or “snout”, this word was chosen because the Giants snout and whiskers draw immediate attention. Few races have been more prolific in their development of new breeds of dog than the Germanic peoples. Not only have they evinced rare patience in tracking ancestries, but they have proved their ability to fix type. One of the most notable examples of their breeding skill is the Schnauzer, for there is a dog not only brought to splendid physical conformation and keen mental development but reproduced in three distinct sizes. The Giant Schnauzer is called the “Riesenschnauzer” in Germany, which means “the giant.” It is important to realize that the Miniature, the Standard, and the Giant Schnauzer are three separate and distinct breeds.
In unearthing the history of this breed, it must be remembered that occupations of men had a great deal to do with all development in dogs. There were no benched shows in those days, and when a new breed was produced, it was aimed at a specific work. Also, its characteristics were governed to large extend to weather and living conditions.
There is little doubt that when Bavarian cattlemen went to Stuttgart they came across the medium-sized Schnauzer. Here was a dog to catch anyone’s attention, for even then it was sound, while it showed power throughout its trim lines. The Bavarians liked the dog, but they were not satisfied with its size. The sheep men could use this size of dog, but the drovers needed a larger specimen for cattle.
The first attempts to produce a drover’s dog on terrier lines, with a wiry coat, were no doubt by crossings between the medium-sized Schnauzer and some of the smooth-coated driving and dairyman’s dogs then in existence. Later there were crossings with the rough-haired sheepdogs, and much later with the black Great Dane. There is also reason to believe that the Giant Schnauzer is closely related to the Bouvier Des Flandres, which was the driving dog of Flanders.
The Giant Schnauzer was first used as a cattle driving dog in Bavaria, then later as a guard dog, and by the police and military. The Giant Schnauzer excels at Schutzhund and also makes a good companion. For many years the Giant Schnauzer was called the Munchener, and it was widely known as a great cattle and driving dog. Von Stephanitz places its origin as Swabia – in the south of Bavaria. And it was found in a state of perfection in the region between Munich and Augsburg.
When shepherds drove their herds through Bavaria, Giant Schnauzers were soon recognized as guard dogs by shopkeepers. In Germany, the Giant is the dog of choice for police work. Both in Canada and the U.S., Giants are used for rescue work and at airports for detection of illegal and or dangerous substances.
The Giant Schnauzer was practically unknown outside of Bavaria until nearly the end of the first decade of this century. Cattle-driving was then a thing of the past as the railroad took the cattle to market, but the breed was still found in the hands of butchers, at stockyards, and at breweries. The breweries maintained the dogs as guards, at which duty they were pre-eminently successful.
Not until just before World War I, when their numbers were greatly decreased during the fighting, did the Giant Schnauzer begin to come to nationwide attention in Germany as a suitable subject to receive police training at the schools in Berlin and other principal cities. He proved such an intelligent pupil that police work has been his main occupation since that time. Breeders worked to restore populations after the war and created the first written standard in 1923.
The first Giant Schnauzers to arrive in the United States did so in the 1920’s, although the breed was not established in that country until the 1930’s, mainly from German stock, but the breed remained uncommon until the 1960s. In 1962, there were 23 new Giant Schnauzers registered with the American Kennel Club; in 1974 this number was 386; in 1984 it was over 800; and at the highpoint in 1987, it was around 1000 dogs. The breed was ranked 94th in AKC registrations in 2011 and 80th in 2017. The first giant notes in Canada was in 1934 from the USA. There were very few less than ten registered in the following years. Canadian Kennel Club did not produce their first source stub book for the breed until 1986.  To this day numbers of registered giants in Canada are low.
There was no official breed club in America until 1962 when the Giant Schnauzer Club of America (GSCA) was founded to promote and protect the breed. And the Giant Schnauzer Canadian Club (GSCC) was founded June of 1977.
The finished product produced an agile deep-chested dog with a huge heart. That’s what makes up a true working dog. Once seen, the Giant Schnauzer is seldom forgotten. Its appearance speaks for itself.
Origin and Purpose
The Giant Schnauzer is generally considered to have originated in the mountains of Bavaria in the 1810’s. Rather than being bred for a specific purpose he was bred, and is noted for, his versatility. He has been used over the years as a drover’s dog, a brewery guard, a cart dog, a herding dog, and a superlative police dog.
General Appearance
The Giant Schnauzer is a robust, more heavy­set than a slender dog, square in build. He should resemble a larger and more powerful version of the Standard Schnauzer. The sound, reliable temperament, rugged build, and dense, weather resistant wiry coat makes for one of the most useful, powerful, and enduring working breeds.
Temperament
Combines spirit and alertness with intelligence and extreme reliability; amiable in repose and a commanding figure when aroused. Shy or vicious dogs shall be dismissed from the ring.
Size
Height at the withers for males is 25 ­1/2 –­ 27 ­1/2 inches (64.7-69.8cm); for females 23 ­1/2 ­ 25 ­1/2 inches (59.6-64.7 cm), mediums preferred. Size alone should never take precedence over type, balance, soundness, and proper temperament. It should be noted that too small dogs generally lack the power and too large dogs the agility and maneuverability desired in a working dog.
Coat and Colour
Coat close, strong, hard and wiry, shorter on ears, skull, throat, and under tail. Slightly longer on legs and under chest, with beard and eyebrows adding to the rectangular appearance of the head. The eyes are not obscured by too ­long eyebrows. The undercoat is soft and dense. Colour may be black, or salt and pepper. Black: deep, solid black. A small white patch on the chest is allowed. Salt and pepper: outer coat to a combination of banded hairs (white and black) and some solid black and solid white hairs, appearing as a medium to dark grey, peppering evenly distributed with no trace of patterning, and a grey undercoat. Dark facial mask to emphasize the expression. Eyebrows, inside ears, whiskers, cheeks, throats, chest, legs, and under tail are lighter in colour but include peppering.
Head
Strong and elongated, gradually narrowing from the ears to the tip of the powerful, ferreting snout, rectangular in appearance and in proportion to the sex and substance of the dog. The length of the head is one ­half the length of the back from withers to the base of the tail. The masseters (cheek muscles) are strongly developed, though no strongly- ­marked cheek form is to disturb the rectangular appearance of the head and beard. The skull is flat and unwrinkled, in width not more than two thirds the length. Occiput not prominent. Muzzle is well filled under the eyes, both parallel and equal in length to the skull, ending in a moderately blunt wedge. The lips are tight, not overlapping, black, and the nose is large, black and full. The tongue may be either pink, or pink with black or grey spots. Bite: a full complement of sound, white teeth (6/6 incisors, 2/2 canines, 8/8 premolars, 4/6 molars) with scissors bite. The upper and lower jaws are powerful and well formed. Eyes: medium sized, dark, oval, turned forward with tight lids. Ears: small and V-­shaped button ears, of moderate thickness, set high on the head, and dropping forward closely to the cheek, or cropped, evenly cut, not overly long, with as little bell as possible, placed high and carried erect in excitement with the inner edges parallel.
Neck
Strong and well arched, of moderate length, blending cleanly into the shoulders, with skin close­fitting at the throat, in harmony with the dog.
Forequarters
Body
Compact, substantial, short­-coupled, and strong, with great power and agility. Topline is short, strong and straight, sloping moderately to the rear, extending into a slightly rounded croup. Chest is moderately broad with visible, strong sternum (breastbone), reaching at least down to the elbow, and slowly tapering up and back to a moderate tuck up. The loin (distance from the last rib to the pelvis) is short, giving the impression of a compact body. The length of the dog from sternum to point of rump is equal to the height at the withers.
Hindquarters
Strongly muscled, in balance with the forequarters; femurs (upper thighs) are strong and slanting, the stifles well bent, with tibiae (second thighs) approximately parallel to the extension of the upper neckline. The hocks are short, perpendicular to the ground while the dog is standing, and, from the rear, parallel to each other. The hind feet are slightly smaller than the forefeet. The hindquarters do not appear over­ built or higher than the withers.
Tail
Set moderately high, carried high in excitement, from 2­4 inches long (5­10 cm), should be docked to the second or third joint.
Gait
The trot is free, balanced, and vigorous, with good reach in the fore­ quarters and good driving power in the hindquarters. When moving at a fast trot a properly built dog will single track. Back remains strong, firm, and flat. Movement from the front and rear should be clean and true, the legs being thrown neither in nor out.
Faults
Soundness (both temperament and conformation) and type are of prime importance. The foregoing description is that of the ideal Giant Schnauzer. Any deviation from the standard must be penalized to the extent of the deviation. The Giant Schnauzer should always be considered and judged as a working dog.
DisqualificationsOvershot, undershot.
The judge shall dismiss from the ring any shy or vicious Giant Schnauzer.
Shyness
A dog shall be judged fundamentally shy if, refusing to stand for exami­nation, it repeatedly shrinks away from the judge; if it fears unduly any approach from the rear; if it shines to a marked degree at sudden and unusual noises.
Viciousness
A dog that attacks or attempts to attack either the judge or its handler is definitely vicious. An aggressive or belligerent attitude toward other dogs, while not desirable, shall not be deemed viciousness.
CKC.ca

OFA-CHIC Health Testing Requirements
The OFA, working with the breed’s parent club, recommends the following basic health screening tests for all breeding stock. Dogs meeting these basic health screening requirements will be issued Canine Health Information Center (CHIC) numbers. For CHIC certification, all results do not need to be normal, but they must all be in the public domain so that responsible breeders can make more informed breeding decisions. For potential puppy buyers, CHIC certification is a good indicator the breeder responsibly factors good health into their selection criteria. The breed specific list below represents the basic health screening recommendations. It is not all encompassing. There may be other health screening tests appropriate for this breed. And, there may be other health concerns for which there is no commonly accepted screening protocol available.
Additional test
ofa.org

PRA
Progressive retinal atrophy is a group of genetic diseases seen in certain breeds of dogs and, more rarely, cats. Similar to retinitis pigmentosa in humans, it is characterized by the bilateral degeneration of the retina, causing progressive vision loss culminating in blindness.

Coagulation Factor VII Deficiency
Coagulation Factor VII Deficiency is an inherited bleeding disorder affecting giant schnauzers. Factor VII is an essential protein needed for normal blood clotting. Deficiency of this factor most commonly results in a mild bleeding disorder. An affected dog may bruise easily, have frequent nosebleeds, and exhibit prolonged bleeding after surgery or trauma. In rare cases, the bleeding may be severe. Due to the mild nature of this disorder, affected dogs may not be identified until a surgery is performed or trauma occurs at which time excessive bleeding is noted. Veterinarians performing surgery on dogs that are known to have coagulation factor VII deficiency should have ready access to blood banked for transfusions. Most dogs with this condition will have a normal lifespan despite increased blood clotting times

Degenerative Myelopathy
Degenerative Myelopathy is an inherited neurologic disorder caused by a Mutation of the SOD1 gene known to be carried by giant schnauzers. This mutation is found in many breeds of dog, though it is not clear for giant schnauzers whether all dogs carrying two copies of the mutation will develop the disease. The variable presentation between breeds suggests that there are environmental or other genetic factors responsible for modifying disease expression. The average age of onset for dogs with degenerative myelopathy is approximately nine years of age. The disease affects the White Matter tissue of the spinal cord and is considered the canine equivalent to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig’s disease) found in humans. Affected dogs usually present in adulthood with gradual muscle Atrophy and loss of coordination typically beginning in the hind limbs due to degeneration of the nerves. The condition is not typically painful for the dog, but will progress until the dog is no longer able to walk. The gait of dogs affected with degenerative myelopathy can be difficult to distinguish from the gait of dogs with hip dysplasia, arthritis of other joints of the hind limbs, or intervertebral disc disease. Late in the progression of disease, dogs may lose fecal and urinary continence and the forelimbs may be affected. Affected dogs may fully lose the ability to walk 6 months to 2 years after the onset of symptoms. Affected medium to large breed dogs, such as the giant schnauzer, can be difficult to manage and owners often elect euthanasia when their dog can no longer support weight in the hind limbs.

Hyperuricosuria

Hyperuricosuria is an inherited condition affecting Giant Schnauzers. The SLC2A9 gene codes for a protein that allows the kidneys to transport uric acid from the urine. Dogs with mutations in both copies of the SLC2A9 gene are predisposed to have elevated levels of uric acid in the urine, hence the name hyperuricosuria. Uric acid can form crystals and/or stones (uroliths) in the urinary tract. Dogs with hyperuricosuria most commonly present with symptoms of recurrent urinary tract inflammation, which include frequent urination, blood in the urine, and straining to urinate. They may also have loss of appetite, lethargy, weakness, vomiting and pain. Urinary stones in the bladder can cause urinary tract infections or more seriously, blockage of the Urethra. Both male and female dogs can be affected, but obstruction of urine flow is more common in males due to differences in anatomy. Although an x-ray can be used to exclude other types of stones, urate stones cannot typically be seen using x-rays and must be evaluated by ultrasound. Not all dogs with mutations in both copies of the SLC2A9 gene will have symptoms of disease, though they will have increased uric acid excretion in the urine.
Genetic Diversity Testing for Giant Schnauzers
The Veterinary Genetics Laboratory (VGL), in collaboration with Dr. Niels C. Pedersen and staff, has developed a panel of short tandem repeat (STR) markers that will determine genetic diversity across most of the genome and in the Dog Leukocyte Antigen (DLA) class I and II regions. This test panel will be useful to breeders who wish to track and increase genetic diversity of their breed as a long-term goal.

https://www.vgl.ucdavis.edu/services/dog/GeneticDiversityInGiantSchnauzers.php
Canine Hypothyroidism
Foxtails Why They’re Dangerous for Dogs
Rolling and Maintaining a Hand Strip Coat
Thyroid
Begin Hand Stripping
Toe Cancer in Giants
Why I Decided to Crop – Written by Robin Waldvogel White DVM of BluHouse Mastini
August 23, 2013 at 10:55am
Ear Crop Position Paper – 11/2008May 10, 2013 at 9:09pmWhy I Decided to Crop Written by Robin Waldvogel White DVM of BluHouse MastiniPermission to publish and cross-post in entirety only is granted. ©November 2008
I did not take my decision to crop ears lightly. Having been raised in the West Coast of the United States, a hotbed for animal rights, and having studied in the United Kingdom, the birthplace of animal rights, I have been more then exposed to the other viewpoints concerning cosmetic surgery in animals. During veterinary school many of my classmates quickly decided against the procedure, siding with many other graduating 21st century veterinarians. Many of my veterinary colleges state that: the dogs are in pain from the cropping procedure, they miss their ears, or that ear cropping is not medically indicated. I hesitated to condemn the practice. After great consideration I have decided to crop the ears of some of my Neapolitan Mastiff puppies because I feel that when done correctly the procedure is safe and I want to maintain the historic look of the Neapolitan Mastiff.
When the procedures are performed under general anesthesia with appropriate analgesia the dogs are not in excessive discomfort. If the procedure is done early, between 2 to 4 months the puppy heals quickly. Dysphoria alone is often the only response and this discomfort and anxiety is common after any anesthetic procedure such as a spay or neuter. These common well-accepted procedures hold similar surgical risks as ear cropping in regards to the inherent risks of anesthesia, blood loss, and infection. Preoperative multimodal pain control that blocks the pain pathway in multiple locations, followed by a couple of days of basic analgesia can more than adequately control any pain or discomfort. With appropriate antibiotics to prevent infection and appropriate post-op hygiene, the aftercare also creates little discomfort.. The extra attention needed for appropriate aftercare also has the side benefit of helping the puppy become accustomed to being touched and treated; in a breed that, when unruly, often has to be sedated or anesthetized to be examined or treated, this conditioning can be invaluable.
Puppies do not miss their ears, tails or dew claws any more then they miss their uterus, ovaries or testicles. This is simply an example of anthropomorphism, an endearing human habit, but not a serious cause for concern. Removal of the ears can affect the non-verbal signals in dogs, but this trait is desired in the guard dog that often has to obscure its intentions and educated owners can easily compensate for this minor change in non-verbal behavior.
One of the last points concerning ear cropping is the belief that the procedure is not medically necessary. Typically, like the spay or neuter, cropping ears is done before health issues arise and not always in the face of disease. Cropping the ears changes the morphology of the ear and increases airflow to the deeper canals; this open type of morphology has been shown to help prevent otitis externa(1). Chronic ear infections can create a longstanding painful medical condition, where surgery is often required to open up the ear canal and improve the condition. In addition to ear infections, ear hematomas are another painful condition of the ear. Removal of a large portion of the pinna helps prevent ear hematoma formation. Although I am not advocating cropping all dogs’ ears to prevent disease, dogs that are cropped as per the breed standard, can have these beneficial medical side effects.
After considering these concerns and concluding they did not provide enough reason not to crop, I had to address the reasons why I wanted to crop, because in some ways I do enjoy those big floppy ears. I eventually decided to crop because I did not want the tradition and heritage encompassing a cropped animal to be lost forever. I am a big fan of natural history and native cultures; many indigenous peoples practice self-modification using neck rings, lip plates and earpieces that distort their physiques. Many of these cultures begin these practices early, long before consent is possible. While I cannot condone all body modification acts, to me it would be wrong to ban practices such as nose piercing or lip plates; every culture has it’s own set of beauty standards and many North Americans practice similar, socially accepted, methods of body modification. Even though I may not choose these practices for myself, I know these modifications represent an important aspect of the cultural heritage and tradition of many cultures.
For me ear cropping and tail docking holds the same traditional context. I recently watched the 1995 TV miniseries “Pride and Prejudice” and I could not help but feel disappointed upon seeing the English Springer Spaniels with tails and the Great Dane with floppy uncropped ears. The two dogs were present simply to stage the scene, but knowing that in the early 1800’s dogs were cropped and docked I felt let down with the portrayal. The obvious anachronisms were perhaps no more serious then hearing the phone ring or seeing a modern doorbell but they left me thinking about what was lost. In the same note, that loss of tradition was seen in other places. Sure there is something to be said about the practicality of Catholic Mass being done in English, but one of the most moving moments of my life was experiencing Mass in Latin, even if I only understood half of what was being said. Every mass does not need to be done in Latin, but we will have lost something wonderful if one day that custom can no longer be found somewhere on this planet.
With appropriate surgical technique, anesthesia, analgesia and post-operative care the ear cropping procedure can be performed with little discomfort. Not every puppy will be cropped but those that are will help maintain the historic look of the breed so that when they are brought into the ring or shown to other fanciers the full impact of the Neapolitan Mastiff can be appreciated. To me, the beauty of a Neapolitan Mastiff’s square head, cropped ears and piercing gaze is like hearing a beautiful hymn, sung in Latin, resonating through a grand European cathedral.
Written by Robin Waldvogel White DVM of BluHouse MastiniPermission to publish and cross-post in entirety only is granted. ©November 2008  References(1)Hayes HM Jr, Pickle LW, Wilson GP. Effects of ear type and weather on the hospital prevalence of canine otitis externa. Res Vet Sci. 1987 May;42(3):294-8.
The GSC and its members are committed to a standardized 4 step process to identify dogs that have the right traits to successfully perform a wide variety of tasks.
Required Traits Of The Working Dog:
– structural soundness, effective movement, fitness and strength
– courage, hardness and the will to handle adversity in a variety of forms
– persistence and determination to overcome obstacles and hardships
–  a balanced dog that is versatile and sure of character
The Process To Select and Develop Top Working Dogs
1. Training2. Testing3. Certification4. Entry Into The Breeding Program
We believe that an effective way to select the kind of temperament and structure we value is to test the dogs in the sport of SchutzhundThe training and selecting breeding of dogs possessing those traits also benefit:
– Police and Military– Service Organizations– Search and Rescue
©  Copyright Giant Schnauzer CanadaRed Deer Web Design by Promark Business Solutions
--------------------------------------------------
JAVASCRIPT IS DISABLED. Please enable JavaScript on your browser to best view this site.
Giants generally live between 10-12 years, although some have been known to live longer up to the age of 14-16 years, and others have sadly died younger.
According to the Joint Schnauzer Breeds Health Survey 2023, from a total of 63 Giants that took part in the deceased survey, the median age of death was 10 years (average 9.6 years), and maximum age of the 63 entered was 14 years.
Feeding costs will obviously depend on the type of food and will vary from one supplier to another.
An adult male will weigh around 38-45kg, and a female around 32-38kg.
If raw feeding 2-3% of their adult body weight is required, therefore approximately:
Males: 800g – 1.4kg per day (depending on body weight)
Females: 600g -1.2kg per day (depending on body weight)
If feeding kibble a Giant will eat approximately 11-15kg per month (depending on body weight)
From the amount of food required you can calculate the feeding costs based on the chosen food.
Puppies up to the age of 12 months should have restricted exercise to ensure their joints develop correctly. Free running on soft ground with gentle slopes is ideal, however formal lead walking will need to be restricted to short walks otherwise puppies may be encouraged to do more than they naturally would.
Adults will require at least 1hr off lead free running per day, in addition to another 1hr form of exercise or training.
Even when it’s raining and cold, you will still need to take your dog for a walk. If you do not take your dog for regular walks, they will become bored, destructive and overweight; this can impact both their physical and mental health.
Giants do not shed coat as with shorter course coated breeds, however you may notice clumps of hair and undercoat under furniture and near skirting boards. They require regular grooming, stripping/clipping and trimming, approximately every 2-3 months. If the body coat is left for too long it will eventually ‘blow’ this is where the coat appears very woolly and untidy,  and tends to be very loose and will come out quite readily.
No not necessarily, there is much reference on the internet that Giants are hypoallergenic, however this is not strictly true, whilst they may not cause an allergic reaction for some suffers, they do still have dander and saliva which are the most common allergens. For anyone with allergies it may be better to spend some time with the relatives of a prospective puppy to gauge the response beforehand.
Giants are a ‘people’ breed, they are loyal and devoted to their family. Their energy levels and enthusiasm makes them excellent play mates for older children. However, since they are very strong and boisterous they could unintentionally knock over a small toddler during play. Careful consideration should be given as to whether a busy family life can accommodate the amount of time, attention, training and socialising required by a large breed puppy especially if children are very young. A Giant will want to be involved with their family and are not happy if isolated away on their own in a kennel.
If a Giant puppy is brought up with a cat from the outset, they often eventually form a relationship were they can live together, however a lot will also depend how the resident cat reacts with dogs. They may come to a mutual agreement to either keep out of each others way, or they may get along together. On the other hand if  a cat is introduced into the house once a Giant has already established their place, and is not used to cats, this may be a different story. Giant Schnauzers can have a high prey drive and may find it difficult to curtail their chase instincts if a cat is introduced later on. With a visiting neighbourhood cat, Giants tend to be quite interested and will most likely want to chase them away from the garden. Therefore the answer to this question is not so straight forward.
Giant Schnauzers are a ‘trimmed breed’, they do not tend to shed coat as much as shorter haired breeds, and therefore require regular grooming. Legs and beard need brushing and combing frequently to prevent mats developing. Stripping, clipping and trimming is required roughly every 8-12 weeks. Ears need keeping clean, nails need trimming, and routine canine dental care. Puppies need socialising to grooming, nail clipping and dental care from a very young age and on  a regular basis. With a little practice you can learn how to groom yourself.
The most obvious issue regarding a male or female is their size. Males are generally of a much larger stature, stronger and more powerful. There is also a hormonal factor requiring consideration. Females will have an oestrus cycle every 6-8 months, where the female will be in season for around 3 weeks. During this time segregation will be required to prevent unwanted pregnancies. Giant Schnauzer females are generally on the whole more aware of their surroundings. Males may tend to me more independent, although may also become hormonal and mark their territory, seek out bitches in season and display mounting behaviour during the adolescent phase. Both males and females may in some instances be dominant with dogs of the same sex. The decision between a male or female in some respects can be quite subjective, and each dog will have their own personality. It is always better to see the parents where possible, and speak to the breeder about the temperament of the relevant breeding lines. When making the decision to spay or neuter it is important to consider the age of the dog, and wait until their joints have developed and growth plates fully closed, which is under the control of hormonal changes. If considering spaying or neutering it is better to wait until the dog is fully mature in terms of growth and mental development, which is usually not until 2 years.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Eliska Zeiskova, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 28, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Giant Schnauzer is a dog of dignified nature. They take their life rules very seriously and implant them firmly in their family connections. The Giant Schnauzer is a guard dog at heart, one of the many interesting breed traits.
Not only is this dog substantial in size, but they are also significant in spirit. We hope that you learn something about the Giant Schnauzer and see if this fantastic breed is right for you.
Height:
23–27 inches
Weight:
55–110 pounds
Lifespan:
12–15 years
Colors:
Black, salt and pepper
Suitable for:
Experienced owners, active lifestyles, country living
Temperament:
Patient, alert, assertive, loyal
The Giant Schnauzer is undoubtedly what it claims—giant! Unlike the Great Dane or Saint Bernard, which could be considered gentle giants, the Giant Schnauzer takes their duties very seriously, and they definitely don’t have time for reindeer games.
But a Schnazuer in its natural environment is a loving, attentive breed that is very interested in their owners and what they’re doing. You will have irreplaceable memories of incredible companionship.

Anytime you get a Giant Schnauzer, you should always purchase them from a reputable, knowledgeable breeder with an extensive history of successful litters. You can’t skip this when it comes to solid breeding.
Their temperament and overall health requires very good breeding skills in the beginning. It is important to meet both parents to see what possibilities your puppy has for the future. They might not act like both parents exactly, but they can carry genetic traits of both.
It is likely rare that you would ever find a purebred Giant Schnauzer at a rescue shelter, but it might happen, depending on your region. Animals can be rehomed for several reasons, and many people get into predicaments where having a dog is just not feasible.
You can always check out local rescues and shelters to see if there’s any availability from this particular breed. The most likely scenario, however, is that you will get the Giant Schnauzer puppy from a reputable breeder, which can certainly cost a pretty penny.
They might also be rare, making it very hard to find a Giant Schnauzer breeder in your area. Keep in mind that this might mean travel for some people. As puppies, the Giant Schnauzer might be a little more relaxed, but definitely requires a substantial amount of exercise.
They need early socialization to become exceptional dogs later in life. So make sure that you take your Schnauzer buddy on plenty of adventures early on once they have been fully vaccinated. During the first several weeks of life, you should never let them out in public spaces, as it can expose them to deadly viruses such as parvo. A dog is not fully vaccinated from parvo until it is a few months old. It is important to get all of the required vaccinations to prevent unwanted illness.

The Giant Schnauzer is an incredibly intelligent breed that can continuously grow in their skill set. They will be hard to manage for certain people as they require a dominant and certain hand during training.
If you show any signs of submissiveness, it could cause them to undermine your role as the leader and take charge themselves. While this won’t make their loyalty to you any less, they will feel like they have to take care of you instead of the other way around.
It is important that they learn their place in the hierarchy so you can develop a healthy and sturdy relationship with no power differential.
The Giant Schnauzer is an incredibly loyal and affectionate breed, getting extremely close and forming irreplaceable bonds with their family members. They are very docile and affectionate towards those they are close with, but might be suspicious of unfamiliar faces.
The Giant Schnauzer is a hit or miss when it comes to people. Some of them are very friendly with strangers, while others require a lot of time to warm up. More dominant Giant Schnauzers might never acclimate very well to a strange face. It is crucial to acclimate them to others early so they don’t develop these stern and rigid ideas about outsiders.
However, if you’re looking for a guard dog with a sound mind that can protect your household, this is certainly a dog to consider. If the Giant Schnauzer is raised alongside children, they will bond with them wonderfully. However, no dog should ever be left alone with children unattended, as anything could happen.
The Giant Schnauzer can make an amazing family companion to people, and they can also get along quite well with other pets—possibly. The Giant Schnauzer needs to be wholly socialized early on to avoid any prey-driven tendencies.
They also might be suspicious of strange dogs, so they must understand discernment early on. As with any dog, it’s essential to never leave them unsupervised with any pet. A Giant Schnauzer that’s never been acclimated to other pets might be very aggressive towards unknown dogs, cats, or other animals.
Even dogs with proper socialization may never be too excited about unknown animals in their territory. You should always supervise any animal together, but you should especially do so with a breed such as this.

A Giant Schnauzer will require a high protein, calorie-rich meal to keep them healthy. Since they are a large breed, they grow heavy bones quickly and require an age-appropriate diet.
Giant Schnauzers under 2 years of age should have high-quality dog food that will supply the correct nutrients to nurse their growing brains and bodies. There are still tons of viable options online and in store for dry and canned food diets.
For a Giant Schnauzer specifically, dry kibble is going to be the most cost-effective option. However, some are catching more onto fresh food diets, which are typically subscription-based services.
Exercise is going to be a crucial component in your Giant Schnauzer’s day. They thrive on activity and need roughly an hour to an hour and a half of exercise per day. Not only is physical activity significant to their overall health, but mental stimulation is equally as vital. The Giant Schnauzer is a dog of extreme wit, agility, and alertness. They will need it to be stimulated appropriately to harness these particular instincts.
The Giant Schnauzer is a highly trainable canine. They have an extremely good focus and an impeccable loyalty to their owner. This dog’s devotion to their owner makes them highly trainable, especially if you have experience.
Inexperienced dog owners can enjoy this breed, permitting a willingness to invest in professional training. With the right guidance, the Giant Schnauzer can be highly obedient and willing to obey—but it will certainly take some convincing.
These dogs are designed to learn but developed to make swift decisions and act accordingly. Because the training style can be a little unique to standard canines, many people find that they need help even if they have previous canine experience.
Grooming the Giant Schnauzer is certainly a task. Many people who own these types of dogs take their pups to a professional groomer. They can give them a fanciful haircut and the whole nine yards. You can learn how to perform haircuts at home, if you so prefer.
There are many upsides to having a Schnauzer in the grooming department. First of all, their hair is, of course, capable of matting or tangling, but regular brushing generally prevents it. They are also considered hypoallergenic and shed very little.
We want to point out that no dog is ever truly hypoallergenic, but these dogs certainly irritate allergy sufferers less than standard dogs. Schnauzers themselves can have rather tender skin, so always use fragrance-free, natural products to prevent irritation.
Your Giant Schnauzer will require annual vet care. When you first bring them home, they will visit the vet quite often, going for parasite prevention, routine vaccinations, spay/neuter surgery, and even microchipping.
As they age, they must come in for at least an annual check-up or possibly more often should health issues arise. These dogs are generally healthy but do carry some genetic health issues. The one way to navigate away from genetic health issues is to make sure both parents are adequately tested for common issues.
Many families are opting for pet insurance as a way to alleviate the cost of vet bills. Should any random illness or injury arise, you are covered in these moments of crisis. You can look through your own insurance company to see if you can bundle your pet in. Or, you can look at quotes from different companies to see if one matches your budget and need.
Minor Conditions

 Glaucoma

Serious Conditions

 Hip dysplasia
 Autoimmune thyroiditis
 Autoimmune hemolytic anemia
 Cancer of toes



Male vs Female
One of the first differences you’ll notice right off hand is that the male Schnauzer is substantially larger than the female. They have incredibly strong, lean, muscular bodies with a firm presence.
The females have a lean, muscular frame as well, but tend to be smaller and weigh less. Both sexes might have a little issue with dominance, either with other dogs or with strangers. It is important to address any territorial behaviors early for the best results.
The breed doesn’t necessarily have any bearing on overall personality, so keep that in mind when you’re picking out your puppy. All dogs, male or female, should get spayed or neutered before they reach sexual maturity.
Certain vets like to wait with larger breed dogs for their entire structure to develop before the surgery occurs. It will be up to the individual vet, and you can address any particular concerns you have as necessary.

3 Little-Known Facts About the Giant Schnauzer
1. There are a total of three sizes of Schnauzer.
Much like the Poodle, the Giant Schnauzer comes in three different sizes. There is the miniature, standard, and giant. All of them share many of the same characteristics, although the smaller ones can be quite hyper in comparison to the larger ones.

2. The Giant Schnauzer was bred for work.
They were designed to fulfill tasks, primarily driving cattle from the farm to the market. They were also very talented at carting goods and helping out farmers with daily chores.

3. The Giant Schnauzer is bearded.
The Giant Schnauzer gets its classic, dapper look from its scruffy beard. You can have it well-manicured or leave it scruffy—it’s distinguished either way.

Final Thoughts
Now you understand what the Giant Schnauzer is all about. They can make amazing family, companions, permitting they have the right type of training. They are naturally protected by nature and will require a firm hand.
Once they understand manners, they can interact with strangers and other pets more efficiently.
Sources

https://www.akc.org/expert-advice/dog-breeds/10-facts-about-giant-schnauzers



Featured Image Credit: Eliska Zeiskova, Shutterstock
           How useful was this post?               Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)                                 Submit Rating                  Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!       Your feedback really matters.          What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?            Submit Feedback



One of the first differences you’ll notice right off hand is that the male Schnauzer is substantially larger than the female. They have incredibly strong, lean, muscular bodies with a firm presence.
The females have a lean, muscular frame as well, but tend to be smaller and weigh less. Both sexes might have a little issue with dominance, either with other dogs or with strangers. It is important to address any territorial behaviors early for the best results.
The breed doesn’t necessarily have any bearing on overall personality, so keep that in mind when you’re picking out your puppy. All dogs, male or female, should get spayed or neutered before they reach sexual maturity.
Certain vets like to wait with larger breed dogs for their entire structure to develop before the surgery occurs. It will be up to the individual vet, and you can address any particular concerns you have as necessary.
Much like the Poodle, the Giant Schnauzer comes in three different sizes. There is the miniature, standard, and giant. All of them share many of the same characteristics, although the smaller ones can be quite hyper in comparison to the larger ones.
They were designed to fulfill tasks, primarily driving cattle from the farm to the market. They were also very talented at carting goods and helping out farmers with daily chores.
The Giant Schnauzer gets its classic, dapper look from its scruffy beard. You can have it well-manicured or leave it scruffy—it’s distinguished either way.

Now you understand what the Giant Schnauzer is all about. They can make amazing family, companions, permitting they have the right type of training. They are naturally protected by nature and will require a firm hand.
Once they understand manners, they can interact with strangers and other pets more efficiently.
Featured Image Credit: Eliska Zeiskova, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Ashley Bates is a freelance dog writer and pet enthusiast who is currently studying the art of animal therapy. A mother to four human children— and 23 furry and feathery kids, too – Ashley volunteers at local shelters, advocates for animal well-being, and rescues every creature in need. Her mission is to create awareness, education, and entertainment about pets to  
prevent homelessness. Her specialties are dogs and cats.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share
Height:
23–27 inches
Weight:
55–80 pounds
Lifespan:
10–14 years
Colors:
Black, salt and pepper
Suitable for:
Active families and singles, hunters
Temperament:
Intelligent, loyal, kind, powerful, stubborn
The Giant Schnauzer was bred specifically to be a working dog and is the largest of the three different Schnauzer breeds. They were first developed in the 17th century in Germany to assist in driving livestock and work as loyal guard dogs, and eventually, they became popular military dogs in both World War I and II. Today, they are commonly used as police and military dogs, for search and rescue, and in agility shows.
The name “Giant” is somewhat misleading, as these dogs are dwarfed by real giant breeds like Great Danes, although they are far larger than their cousins, the standard Schnauzer and Miniature Schnauzer. Their personalities are huge, though. While they are friendly and playful animals, they can display dominance at times and maybe a handful for first-time owners. If they do not get the required stimulation, they can become destructive, and your shoes and furniture will suffer the consequences.
These dogs are widely used as versatile working animals but make loyal and loving companions. Read on below for a deeper dive into this powerful breed.


A post shared by schnauzer_cuties_world_79 (@schnauzer_cuties_world_79)

Giant Schnauzer puppies are as adorable as their parents, and you’ll find them hard to resist should you go to view one. They have a coarse and wiry outer coat with a velvety soft undercoat, along with soft drooped ears. The most recognizable characteristic of the Giant Schnauzer is their bushy mustache and eyebrows and their soft, gentle eyes. Indeed, they have eyes that seem to know just what you are feeling.
You’re not spoiled for choice in terms of color. The breed has only two recognized colors: black, and salt and pepper. The latter is a sprinkling of white hair intermingled with their black undercoat, taking on the appearance of salt and pepper being sprinkled onto them.
They are large, energetic, and boisterous dogs that require a ton of exercise and firm training. This should be taken into careful consideration before deciding to bring one of these puppies home.
The three different Schnauzer sizes—Giant, Standard, and Miniature—are actually three different American Kennel Club-recognized breeds. Toy and Teacup Schnauzers are also available but are just market terms for smaller-sized dogs and are not recognized by the AKC. The three breeds have much in common but also vary widely in more ways than just size.
The Giant and Standard Schnauzers are considered to be part of the group of working dogs, while the Miniature Schnauzer is considered to be part of the Terrier group. This classification has caused heated debates, as the Miniature Schnauzer does not share many similarities with Terriers.
With their distinct and recognizable mustache, their name may seem like a perfect fit, but these dogs were originally known as the Wire-Haired Pinscher. When dog shows became popular in the late 1800s, the breed was renamed to a more fitting title to include its distinctive whiskered snout. They also have a square and protruding snout that further accentuates their mustache. The word “Schnauzer” comes from the German word “schnuaze,” which means snouter.
While it may seem counterintuitive, the Giant Schnauzer was the last of the three to be developed. Breeders were looking for a working cattle dog and guard dog, and the Standard Schnauzer was crossed with a Black Great Dane to increase its size. This made the breed’s coat shorter and the body larger and more powerful, and made them into a formidable guard dog too.
Giant Schnauzers are known for their unwavering loyalty and protective nature, but they can be stubborn and mischievous too. They are a true working breed and will make great guard dogs because they are intimidating, powerful animals with a dominating presence.
They have the bold, brave, and assertive qualities of a champion watchdog coupled with the calm, gentle, and loving nature of a true companion animal. They have a strong love and bond with their owners that can quickly translate into a fierce sense of loyalty and protectiveness that can be intimidating to strangers. What’s more, they are inherently distrustful of strangers and can be extremely territorial at times. They need a firm and assertive hand when training and can be a handful for experienced owners, let alone first-time dog owners.
These traits make them a wonderful and fiercely loyal companion with a massive presence, both physically and energetically. This cannot be taken lightly, and these dogs are a huge responsibility that is not for the faint-hearted. With calm, assertive leadership and a healthy dose of patience, they are the most loyal, hardworking, and loving companions you could wish for.
Giant Schnauzers make great family pets. They are incredible guard dogs that are highly territorial, alert, and loyal. They have all the qualities of an ideal family companion, being gentle, kind, affectionate, and protective. The one caveat is that they are easily excited and get boisterous at times and may unintentionally knock over small children—you’ll need to keep a close eye on these gentle giants around your kids. They also possess an inclination toward aggression if not trained and socialized correctly, so these are essential components to instill in these dogs as early as possible.
These friendly dogs will usually make fast friends with other pets. Your cats may not be to be enthused about the giant newcomer, though, as Giant Schnauzers have a fairly high prey drive. Without neutering or spaying, other dogs of the same gender may be an issue, as they may fight for the top position in the household. The key to mitigating these problems is early socialization, which will help your Schnauzer see these other pets as an essential part of the family.

Giant Schnauzers are active, energetic dogs with large and solid frames, and they will need a nutrient-rich diet to match. We recommend a diet that is high in protein to fuel their high energy and sturdy build. This can come in the form of a specialized, protein-rich dry food or from plenty of lean meats or organ meats, like liver and kidney. As a daily standard, around 4 cups of high-quality dry kibble are great, divided into two meals. They should have plenty of fresh, clean water available at all times too.
Of course, the quality of food is extremely important, as you’ll need to feed your dog less and they will gain more nutritional benefits. Commercial dog food frequently contains filler ingredients to bulk the food up, which results in a low nutritional value but a high-calorie meal. Not only will this cause rapid weight gain for your pooch, but these filler ingredients can lead to a host of health issues too.
Schnauzers are susceptible to gastric torsion and should ideally be fed gut-friendly foods and should be kept far away from table scraps. Splitting their daily meals up into smaller portions will also help prevent this condition.
The high-energy Giant Schnauzers will require intensive exercise to tire out, and they’ll need at least 1-2 hours a day to be sufficiently worked. Remember, they were bred as hardworking animals, and their genetics will be strongly attuned to having a job to do. Without this regular workout, they can quickly become mischievous and will start chewing, digging, and barking excessively to express their frustration. The culmination of this frustration can also lead to aggression, which is the last thing you want from a large and powerful dog.
Giant Schnauzers are not recommended for small houses or apartments, as they have high energy levels and need a yard to run around in at the very least.
Giant Schnauzers are extremely intelligent and eager to learn and consequently, are easy dogs to train. They will excel at obedience, agility, and command training and have a long history as police and search-and-rescue dogs.
They can be hard-headed animals and stubborn at times, but if you keep training sessions short and entertaining, this is rarely an issue. We recommend reward-based training with these dogs, as they love to please their owners and will thrive on the attention. That said, they are large animals with big personalities and will need a firm hand and calm assertive technique to gain the upper hand.
Training begins the day that you bring your puppy home, and basic commands and socialization a great way to get started. Getting your dog to sit before giving them food or letting them outside is the perfect place to start.
The Giant Schnauzer has a short, coarse, and wiry coat that does not shed much and is thus fairly low maintenance. The undercoat is dense, though, and can be prone to matting, so it will need a weekly brushing. The most important things to pay attention to are the ears. The long drooping ears of the Schnauzer restrict airflow into the ear canal, and this can easily result in infection. Be sure to keep the inside of the ears clean and dry and perform regular checks for redness or infection.
Other than that, nail trimming may be required if their nails get too long, and regular teeth brushing will prevent tartar build-up and dental disorders.
The Giant Schnauzer is a healthy and robust breed with few hereditary health conditions. However, the breed does have a few health concerns to be aware of. These include the following.
Obesity. This is fairly common in Giant Schnauzers and can lead to a cascade of health problems that can quickly become life-threatening. This can include the onset or worsening of joint problems, back pain, heart disease, and digestive disorders. You, the owner, can easily prevent this condition, so you’ll need to resist the soulful eyes staring at you for table scraps!
Dental disease. One of the most common issues in all dog breeds, tartar build-up can quickly lead to gum and tooth infections. Daily brushing is essential to keep these issues at bay.
Gastric Dilatation. This condition begins as simple bloating but can quickly become more serious. Giant Schnauzers have deep and narrow chests, so they are more susceptible than most other breeds. The stomach twists on itself and cuts off blood flow, which can quickly be fatal if left untreated.
Hip and Elbow Dysplasia. A genetic joint condition caused by abnormal formation of the hip and elbow joints, it will result in pain and eventually arthritis. It can be treated with chronic medication but may require surgery in more severe cases. Obesity will further worsen this condition and may bring it on sooner.
Diabetes. This condition is almost exclusively diet-related and can be easily prevented and managed with a good diet. No treats or table scraps!
Epilepsy. This is often an inherited condition and results in seizures of varying degrees of seriousness. Lifelong chronic medication is needed to keep the seizures at bay.
There are many misconceptions about male vs. female dogs, such as marking territory, wandering, and moodiness being the common reasons to choose one over the other. While these generalizations may be true, neutering a male and spaying a female will rid your dog of many, if not all, of these traits. The procedure will also greatly assist their general health and lead to a happier and more even-tempered animal.
There is no real reason to choose a male over a female or vice versa with Giant Schnauzers. Unless you are planning on breeding or showing the dogs, their obedience, energy levels, and personality are unique in each animal, no matter the gender.

They are generally great with children, albeit on the boisterous side at times, so they need a firm and assertive hand in training. They can also be dominating and territorial at times and may not be the ideal choice if you’re an inexperienced dog owner.
If you’re an active lover of the outdoors or you need a hardworking hunting companion, the Giant Schnauzer is a great choice!
Featured Image Credit: Eliska Zeiskova, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
Can Cats Eat Kale? Vet-Reviewed Nutrition Facts & FAQ
4 Homemade Grain-Free Cat Treat Recipes (Vet Approved)
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Cats
Cats
Info
© All Rights Reserved Hepper 2025
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
Author Meghan Russel
Giant Schnauzers are a large breed of dog, typically weighing between 60-80 pounds.
They have a distinctive beard and eyebrows that give them a unique appearance. Their double coat requires regular grooming to prevent matting.
Originating from Germany, this breed was originally bred as guard dogs and ratters.
The Giant Schnauzer is a large breed with a sturdy and well-muscled frame.
They stand at 60 to 70cm at the shoulder, making them quite an imposing presence. Some males can be as tall as 27.5 inches, while females reach up to 25.5 inches.
Their double coat is dense and wiry, featuring a distinctive beard and eyebrows that add to their unique look. Coat colours typically include solid black or salt-and-pepper hues.
The Giant Schnauzer is a large dog breed with some impressive size credentials.
A male Giant Schnauzer can stand anywhere from 25.5 to 27.5 inches at the shoulder, making them quite the towering presence. Females are slightly smaller, measuring between 23.5 and 25.5 inches in height. Some dogs may be smaller or larger than average, but these numbers give you a good idea of what to expect.
Weighing in is just as important, with males tipping the scales at 60 to 80 pounds and females ranging from 55 to 75 pounds. That's one sturdy pup!
The Giant Schnauzer is a large and powerful breed with a distinctive salt-and-pepper coat.
Their wiry, double coat is low-shedding, but it requires regular grooming and trimming to maintain its appearance. This unique feature makes them a great choice for people with allergies or who prefer less dog hair in their lives.
Giant Schnauzers are known for their protective and guarding instincts, making them excellent watchdogs and fiercely loyal companions. They have a strong instinct to defend their family and territory, which can be both a blessing and a challenge for owners.
Here are some key physical characteristics of the Giant Schnauzer breed:
With proper care, Giant Schnauzers are generally healthy dogs with a lifespan of around 10 to 12 years. Regular veterinary check-ups and a balanced diet contribute to their well-being, making them a long-term companion for many families.
The Giant Schnauzer is a very intelligent dog breed.
They are known for their unwavering loyalty and assertiveness, making them effective guardians and watchdogs. This breed is renowned for its keen intelligence, which can sometimes pose a challenge to inexperienced trainers.
Giant Schnauzers take their responsibilities seriously and are protective of home and family, willing to defend them with a fierceness that can be intimidating. They're also territorial dogs who distrust strangers initially.
These dogs are often referred to as Velcro dogs because they never want to be far from their people, making them affectionate and playful companions.
Early socialisation and consistent training are crucial to channel the breed's natural protective instincts and create a well-mannered and friendly canine companion. Finding a reputable dog breeder is one of the most important decisions you will make when bringing a new Giant Schnauzer into your life.
Giant Schnauzers require consistent and firm guidance, as they're quite capable of thinking for themselves and running the household the way they think it ought to be run. They enjoy being with their people and need a fenced yard to play and exercise daily with their favorite human.
Their high energy levels mean that they need plenty of physical activity and mental stimulation to prevent boredom and destructive behavior.
If this caught your attention, see: Are Standard Schnauzers Good Guard Dogs
Giant Schnauzers are energetic breeds that require regular exercise to maintain their physical and mental well-being.
Daily walks, playtime, and mental stimulation through obedience training, interactive toys, and enrichment are essential for a happy and balanced Giant Schnauzer.
A long walk or jog with your Giant Schnauzer is an excellent way to spend quality time together while providing them with the exercise they need.
The Giant Schnauzer is a robust breed, but like all breeds, they can be prone to certain health issues.
Regular veterinary check-ups are essential for ensuring the well-being of this majestic breed. A balanced diet and maintaining a healthy weight are also crucial in preventing or managing these conditions.
Hip dysplasia is a heritable condition that affects some Giant Schnauzers, causing the thighbone not to fit snugly into the hip joint. This can lead to arthritis as the dog ages.
Osteochondrosis Dissecans (OCD) is another condition that affects the joints of some Giant Schnauzers, causing pain and stiffness in the elbows or shoulders.
For more insights, see: Are Miniature Schnauzers Good Dogs
Autoimmune Thyroiditis is a heritable condition that affects the thyroid gland, leading to hypothyroidism. This can cause symptoms such as obesity, mental dullness, and irregular heat cycles.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma is a type of cancer that may occur on the toes of dark-haired Giant Schnauzers.
Common Health Issues in Giant Schnauzers:
Regular veterinary check-ups can help identify these conditions early on, and a balanced diet and healthy weight can also play a role in preventing or managing them.
Giant Schnauzers are not recommended for apartments or condos due to their high energy levels indoors and out.
They require at least an hour of daily exercise, which can be achieved with a couple of half-hour walks at a good clip or vigorous play. This dog can be a digger or chewer, so it's essential to give them something constructive to do instead.
To care for your Giant Schnauzer, train them to do tricks or help you around the house if you want to forestall destructive behavior. They don't like to be bored, so avoid frequent repetition and turn training into a challenging game to get the best out of them.
Feeding a dog can be a challenge, but with the right information, you'll be well on your way to giving your furry friend the nutrients they need.
Giant Schnauzers require a significant amount of food, with a recommended daily amount of 3 3/8 to 4 1/4 cups of high-quality dog food. This can vary depending on their size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level, so it's essential to measure their food and feed them twice a day.
You should be able to see a waist when looking at your dog, and you should be able to feel but not see their ribs without having to press hard. If you can't, they need less food and more exercise.
Giant Schnauzers are intelligent dogs that enjoy slow feeder bowls and puzzle feeders for their meals, which can help prevent boredom and stress.
Puppies, especially those prone to OCD and hip dysplasia, should be on large-breed puppy food until they're at least 1 year old. They also need to be fed more often than full-size Schnauzers, ideally three or four times a day on a consistent feeding schedule.
Curious to learn more? Check out: How Smart Is a Miniature Schnauzer
It's essential to check the dog food bag for information on how much to feed your Schnauzer, as this can vary depending on the specific brand and type of food. Speaking with your veterinarian about your dog's diet is also crucial to ensure they're not overfed and at risk of obesity.
Consider reading: Best Homemade Food for Miniature Schnauzer
Giant Schnauzers require at least an hour of daily exercise, so plan on a couple of half-hour walks at a good clip or vigorous play.
They don't do well in apartments or homes where people aren't home much, so if you're considering bringing one home, make sure you have a house with a yard.
Daily brushing is a must for Giant Schnauzers, with weekly brushing at home and professional grooming every two to four months.
These dogs are intelligent and eager to please, but they can be stubborn, so it's essential to work with a trainer who understands the breed and uses positive training techniques.
Related reading: Almost Home Schnauzer Rescue
Giant Schnauzers have high energy levels and need something constructive to do instead of digging or chewing, like training them to do tricks or help you around the house.
They are sweet and gentle with their family, but may be a little suspicious around new people due to their guarding instinct.
If you're interested in adopting a Giant Schnauzer, a nonprofit rescue group is a good place to start.
These dogs often end up in the care of rescue groups, in need of adoption or fostering, because they were sometimes acquired without any clear understanding of what goes into owning one.
Some reputable rescue groups for Giant Schnauzers include:
Rescue groups can be a great way to find a new furry friend and give them the loving home they deserve.
Grooming your Giant Schnauzer is a must, and it's considered a bonding experience for both you and your dog. They need regular brushing, even though they don't shed large tumbleweeds of hair.
The key to keeping their coat healthy is to brush them with a stiff bristle or slicker brush about three times a week. This will prevent mats from forming in the undercoat. You should also wash their face after every meal to keep it clean and tidy.
It's essential to get your Giant Schnauzer accustomed to being brushed and examined when they're still a puppy. Handle their paws frequently, as dogs can be sensitive about their feet, and look inside their mouth. By making grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, you'll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when they're an adult.
Here's an interesting read: Brush for Schnauzer
Regular Grooming is essential for Giant Schnauzers.
They need regular brushing, about three times a week, to prevent mats from forming in their undercoat. This should be done with a stiff bristle or slicker brush.
Brushing your dog regularly can be a bonding experience and helps them get accustomed to being handled. Start doing this when they're still a puppy.
The face of a Giant Schnauzer needs regular attention too - the beard and eyebrows need to be kept neatly trimmed, especially as the hair can easily become tangled.
It's also important to brush their paws frequently - dogs are touchy about their feet, after all. This will help them get used to having their paws handled.
Giant Schnauzers can develop ear infections.
Regular weekly checks for discharge, redness, or odors are essential to catch any potential issues early on and should be evaluated by a veterinarian if you notice anything out of the ordinary.
Cleaning your dog's ears every week or two with a dog-specific ear cleanser can help keep their canals healthy.
Intriguing read: Giant Schnauzer Ear Cropping
A Giant Schnauzer needs space to move and play - a secure garden is ideal for this breed.
They thrive in environments where they can get regular exercise to prevent boredom and potential behavioural issues.
You'll need a house with a yard to give your Giant Schnauzer at least 40-60 minutes of exercise and play every day.
This breed doesn't do well in apartments or homes where people aren't home much, so consider that when deciding on living arrangements.
Giant Schnauzers generally prefer homes with older kids, as small kiddos can easily be knocked down by these big dogs during play.
Yes, Giant Schnauzers are loyal family companions. They thrive as both working dogs and loving members of a household.
A Giant Schnauzer is primarily made up of the Standard Schnauzer and the German Mastiff.
Giant Schnauzers typically cost between $500 and $2,500, depending on factors such as breeder reputation. Their price range is similar to that of other Schnauzer sizes, including Miniature and Standard Schnauzers.
Giant Schnauzers are generally quiet dogs that only bark when necessary, such as alerting to strangers or boredom. They tend to be calm companions unless left alone for extended periods.
No, a Giant Schnauzer is significantly smaller than a Great Dane. While males can reach up to 27.5" in height, Great Danes can weigh up to 175lb and stand much taller.
Featured Images: pexels.com
Meghan Russel
Senior Assigning Editor
Meghan Russell is an accomplished Assigning Editor with a proven track record of excellence in her field. With over a decade of experience, she has honed her skills in selecting top talent and assigning stories that captivate audiences worldwide.

As a seasoned editor, Meghan brings a keen eye for detail and a deep understanding of what drives compelling storytelling.
Discover everything about giant malamutes: size, temperament, care, and health tips for these majestic dogs.
Read More
Discover the best giant mastiffs for your family, considering temperament, grooming, and exercise needs, to ensure a loving and loyal companion.
Read More
Discover the giant bullmastiff: learn about size, temperament, grooming, and health needs for this loyal and protective breed.
Read More
--------------------------------------------------
