By: Author Amanda OBrien
Posted on Last updated: September 6, 2024
Golden Retrievers are known for their good looks. Along with being handsome pooches, their affectionate and gentle nature has made them one of the most popular dog breeds in the world.
Their bubbly personality also means they’re phenomenal companions, and with their easy-to-train nature, they can readily become part of your family. But can Golden Retrievers and cats get along?
When it comes to owning any dog, whether it’s a Golden Retriever or a Rottweiler, half of the concern comes with your kitty. If you’re thinking of buying or adopting a Golden Retriever, considering how your cat will react is crucial.
So before inviting a new doggy into your home or introducing a cat to the family, this guide will shed light on what you can expect. It’ll also give you insights into some tips and tricks for easy transitions and adjustments you can make to a cat and dog household.
Contents
Any new member of the family will take some time to get used to a different environment and an unfamiliar routine. Taking the proper precautions and care in the process is an essential part of being a pet parent.
Nonetheless, the journey is exciting, and you can follow these guidelines to keep your pets safe and happy.
Golden Retrievers are friendly and loving dogs, which is no different when socializing with cats. They’re known to be extremely affectionate beings, which can even be displayed in their actions towards kitties.
Being incredibly gentle, they don’t run the risk of harming your cat with loud barks or dominating them with their physical strength.
Their intelligence also plays a large role in their success with cats. As intuitive dogs, they know when to back off from an aggressive cat and can easily read the room if they’re in trouble.
The American Bobtail cat has been credited with being the most similar cat breed to Golden Retrievers. So if you’re looking for a loyal cat who enjoys going on adventures, these two will make a wonderful pair.
I have a series of articles on how different dog breeds get along with cats: Can Poodles and Cats Get Along?, Labradoodles and Cats, French Bulldogs and Cats, Rottweilers and Cats, Corgis and Cats, Shih Tzus and Cats and German Shepherds and Cats.
New introductions are made a lot easier when your dog is well-socialized. Socialization can be achieved by bringing your Golden Retriever on adventures with you. They love to be a part of family hikes, trips to the beach, and vacations. When this is done, they’ll slowly learn to become more adaptive.
Socialization is a perk; however, a cat might be a new experience for some dogs. When it comes to introductions, remember to be patient with your pets. It can be overwhelming for both the Golden Retriever and the cat, so try to ensure that you’re at home for the first week of the two species being alone together.
If cats are new to the environment, it’s good practice to let them settle in a room for about a week. Once they start getting familiar with the environment, you can slowly introduce them to your Golden Retriever.
You can introduce the two through glass doors or when the family is at home to keep an eye on things. If necessary, you can always keep your Retriever on a leash for the first few encounters.
When the time comes for your Golden Retriever and cat to meet, it’s a good idea to be well-prepared.
As we all know, cats can be a bit finicky when it comes to new faces, especially when those faces have two big ears, a hairy face, and a wet nose.
If your kitty is a fan of catnip, now would be a good idea to bring it out, along with their favorite cat treats. Dog training works well when there is sufficient stimulation to keep the dog focused. A dog treat, chewing toys, and dog puzzles work well to distract your dog as your cat makes its way around the house, taking in all the new and exciting smells.
While pedigree breeding has allowed us to understand a dog’s breed personality incredibly well, outside factors also play a role in a dog’s behavior.
I know it can be challenging when adopting a dog that may not have owners who you can speak to – but finding out as much information about the dog as possible is essential. Shelters and rescue pages will know more about the dog than you.
Here are some questions you can ask about a dog’s history before bringing them into a home with cats:
Just like different dog breeds have their own distinct nature, so do different breeds of cats. Maine Coons, for example, are known as ‘dogs of the cat world’ due to their strong personalities.
If you have a cat but are dying to get a golden pup, be sure to keep your cat’s personality in mind. If they’re old and stuck in their ways, you’ll need to consider the fact that introductions will take longer, and you might end up with a temporarily angry kitty cat.
As long as you’re patient and follow the right procedures, like slow introductions and the tips mentioned in this post, hopefully, the two will get along in no time.
Training is the number one way you can bring your Golden Retriever up to be a polite and well-behaved pooch.
There’s a reason Golden Retrievers are used as service dogs. These happy-go-lucky dogs are always on the lookout for human approval. With the breed naturally being easy to train, you can get a head start by teaching them from puppyhood.
But just because they’re easy to train doesn’t mean you can get lazy with reinforcement. When these dogs aren’t well-trained, their energy can be overwhelming if you live in a smaller home – particularly for your kitty.
Although these pups love cuddling up on the couch, they’re also relatively high-energy dogs. No matter what dog breed you go for, you’ll need to ensure that they’re getting in the required amount of exercise – for Golden Retrievers, 20 – 30 minutes a day will suffice.
Because of the dog’s intelligence and active nature, they’ll likely get bored if they don’t receive enough exercise. Boredom can lead to picking on other housemates, like your lounging kitty.
A tired Golden Retriever is a good Golden Retriever. They’re less likely to act impulsively and chase the cat when they’ve had their fun for the day.
If you plan to own a Golden Retriever, you’ll need to stay in a relatively large home. Cats, on the other hand, don’t need much space. Regardless of the size of your home, you’ll still need to ensure that each pet has a space to call its own.
Your pet can retreat to a safe space if they feel threatened or uncomfortable. For cats, an open window or bed on a ledge does the trick. Dogs might have a cage, a kennel, or a bed tucked away somewhere in the house.
Your dog and cat’s water and food bowls should also be kept in separate parts of the house. Scratch posts and toys should also be kept apart. This avoids the chances of the two clashing over territory and food.
As independent creatures, cats feel safe in their own presence and don’t like being held. In fact, if you pick up your cat when they’re feeling threatened, it can lead to even more stress.
When cats feel threatened, their first action is flight, fight, or freeze. Seeking out higher territory is usually a go-to if they’re trapped within a house.
You should always give your cat the freedom to roam around at its own will. Providing them with a sense of autonomy means that they can make quick escapes when they’re feeling scared.
With this freedom comes the chance for the two to establish a natural sense of hierarchy. Each pet will need to learn to respect each other and their boundaries.
After a couple of weeks or months of interaction, you’ll know whether or not your two pet babies enjoy each other’s company. Luckily, with Golden Retrievers, their affectionate and loveable nature means they’re generally a breeze around cats.
Cats are the ones who tend to be less inclined to interact with your dogs. They much prefer snoozing in the sun and cuddling up next to their humans.
However, both pets should eventually become totally relaxed around one another. Here are some warning signs if the two don’t like each other:
If you notice any of the behavior from the points above, it’s important that you address the issues before they become a habit. If you’re having trouble managing the two, don’t be afraid to invest in professional training.
As pet owners, we have the ability to love and care for our cats and dogs, but we often don’t know what to do in times of distress. And it’s nothing to be ashamed about. For the sake of your pets and your well-being, a professional trainer can assess the situation and work out the best solution for you and your fur babies.
Golden Retrievers are happy pups with loveable, friendly personalities. Notorious for being exceptional family pets, they’re also known to be one of the best dogs for households with cats.
However, it takes responsibility to ensure your two pets feel safe and comfortable in their homes. As a pet parent, it’ll be up to you to take the proper precautions when introducing the two and understanding the personalities of your fur babies.
In truth, you never know how cats and Golden Retrievers are going to react to one another. But with these tips and need-to-knows, you’ll be on the right track to giving these two a chance to live together peacefully.
Related Posts:
French Bulldogs and Cats
Amanda created and owns The Discerning Cat. A lifelong cat lover she is the proud parent of two Siberian cats, Alexei and Vladimir. She is passionate about understanding cats and different cat breeds.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
--------------------------------------------------
If you own a Golden Retriever and are considering adding a cat, or own a cat and thinking of adding a Golden Retriever, you are not alone. But can it work?
Contrary to what Hollywood has portrayed, cats and dogs can live in harmony. Become educated on your dog breed and be patient when introducing new pets to your home.
Table of Contents
Golden Retrievers are typically happy-go-lucky dogs that can create amicable, even loving, relationships with cats.  Although Golden Retrievers are much larger than cats, they are known for their easy-going personalities making them a perfect fit for multi-animal homes.
This gentle breed is eager to make new friends, including cats. You just need to make sure you follow the steps below to ensure your pets co-habitate in a peaceful, loving relationship.
There are many things to consider before you bring two pets together. It is important to prepare your current pet, as well as making sure to select the right one to bring into the home.
Introducing a cat, or another dog, into your Golden’s home
will be more successful if the dog was properly trained as a puppy.
When training a Golden Retriever puppy, expose the puppy to
different people, animals, and places. Ideally, these introductions should take
place between the ages of seven weeks and four.
Furthermore, proper introductions at an early age will help
the Golden become the sweet, sensible family dog you desire.
If you are considering adding a cat to your Golden’s life, or introducing a Golden Retriever to your cat, follow this advice from a veterinarian on PetVetMet.com about successfully introducing cats and dogs.
History of the Pet: Has the cat peacefully lived with dogs? Has the Golden Retriever previously been introduced to cats? Coexisting will be an easier transition if the pet has prior positive experiences with other pets.
Personality: Like people, cats and dogs have their own distinct personalities. Pets that prefer to be alone may have difficulties blending into a family with another pet. When introducing a new cat or dog to your household, playful personalities may cohabit well with other social pets.
Similar Habits: If your Golden Retriever enjoys basking in the afternoon sun, look for a cat with similar tendencies. Animals with similar habits tend to live in harmony just like humans.
Consider Age: Many people believe that adding a puppy or kitten will “perk-up” an older pet. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. An older cat established in your home may not appreciate the youthful energy of a puppy.
Welcoming a puppy and kitten into your home at the same time works well for some families. The pets have no prior “bad experiences” and will develop a bond as they grow together.
It is very possible to Golden Retrievers and cats to peacefully live together. The transition will be smoother with proper attention paid to introductions and living arrangements.
Introducing a new pet to your household can be stressful for the resident pet, as well as for the new pet. Mitigate stress to the animals by following these simple guidelines.  Check out this great guide to introducing cats and dogs: Successfully Introducing Cats and Dogs:  How to Prevent Pain and Strain!
Introduce on Neutral Territory: Dogs naturally have a
tendency to protect their home and may be threatened by a new pet, especially a
cat entering their home. If adopting a cat from a local rescue, take your
Golden Retriever along. Allow pets time to meet each another.  You can also introduce your pets at your
neighbor’s home.
Allow for Scent Exchange: Golden Retrievers are natural hunters with a strong sense of smell. They will acknowledge the presence of a cat before ever seeing it. To protect the cat (and dog, cat claws cat really hurt your Golden’s eyes) and ease anxiety, allow them to exist in the home together without seeing one another. This may mean keeping the pets in separate rooms for a while. Once both animals have smelled and sensed each other, slowly allow them to interact.
Create Private Sanctuaries: The Golden Retriever
and cat in your life need their own private space during the acclimation
process. Your Golden’s bed and toys should be kept in a separate space from the
cat’s scratching post. Place food and water bowls in separate locations to
prevent clashes.
Monitor for Signs of Stress: As your pets are acclimated to one another and new living quarters, closely monitor for signs of stress. If either pet shows signs of aggression, immediately separate them. Pay close attention to body language. Cat and dogs will have raised hair along their backs or may emit vocal cues when stressed. It is also important to monitored that both pets are eating well.
After your pets have been introduced to one another, it is important to ensure that each pet feels safe and comfortable in the home. Here is some additional advice to prompt a peaceful existence of a dog and cat in your home.
Show Equal Attention: While it may be tempting to
shower the new pet with love and attention, do not neglect the resident pet.
Spend quality time with your cat and Golden Retriever in each of their
respective spaces. Once each pet is comfortable, playtime can occur in a
neutral location.
Use a Leash: The size of a Golden Retriever may be
intimidating to a cat. Your friendly loveable Golden will likely not be aware
of his size. Use a leash on both pets during joint play time. If either animal
becomes aggressive, use the leash to limit movements. Exhibit a cool, calm tone
when speaking to both pets.
Litterbox Location: After your cat and Golden Retriever are comfortable living in a joint space, you can move food and water bowls to a neutral location. The litterbox should remain in the cat’s safe space. Cats that feel threatened while using the litterbox will resort to relieving themselves in other spots of your home. Additionally, dogs, even smart Golden Retrievers, may try to eat the contents of the litterbox.
Every pet owner wants their animal and human family to coexist peacefully. Carefully select the Golden Retriever and cat that will be living together. Slowing introduce them to each other. Establish a safe space for each pet. Then, be patient.
Golden Retrievers are good with cats. Affection between pets cannot be forced though. As such, continue to love your cat and Golden Retriever and allow their relationship to grow organically.
For more tips on how you can train your Golden be sure to visit our article on How to Train Your Golden Retriever.
Dr. Anne Traas
Anne Traas, DVM, MS, Diplomate ACT is a veterinarian and the new President of Golden Retriever Society. She is board certified (a specialist) in canine reproduction. In her day job, she is a leader in a small biotech where she and a team of veterinarians and scientists work to develop new medications for pets. She enjoys sharing her knowledge of this wonderful breed of dogs. She and her husband have 2 children, 3 dogs and one cat. They love camping and hiking and she can often be found with her head in a good book.
Golden Retriever Feeding Chart for Puppy, Adult & Senior
If you are a Golden Retriever owner, you have more than likely noticed that your dog enjoys eating. They will do just about anything for a morsel of food. Given how much Goldens love food, having a...
How to Take Care of a Senior Golden Retriever
Golden Retrievers are arguably the most popular dog breeds made as pets by families worldwide, with their good-natured, playful, and sweet personalities that are hard to resist.



That said, it's no...
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Golden Retriever is a widely loved and recognized breed of dog known for its intelligence, good nature, and fetching abilities. They are often characterized by their beautiful golden coats, friendly disposition, and love of water. The Golden Retriever breed was first developed in Scotland during the mid-19th century by Dudley Marjoribanks, also known as Lord Tweedmouth. He aimed to create a breed that was adept at retrieving game from both water and land, as the hunting methods of the time were becoming more varied. The original cross was of a Yellow Retriever with a now extinct breed, known as the Tweed Water Spaniel. Irish Setter and Bloodhound were also added to the mix later
Golden Retrievers can suffer from juvenile cataracts, progressive retinal atrophy, progressive rod-cone degeneration, pigmentary uveitis, elbow and hip dysplasia, subvalvular aortic stenosis, hypothyroidism, mast cell tumors, osteosarcoma, seizures, lymphoma hemangiosarcoma, and skin problems. Genetic testing for conditions such as ichthyosis (type1 and type 2), neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 5, degenerative myelopathy, dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, exercise-induced collapse, muscular dystrophy, and osteogenesis imperfecta can assist veterinarians with diagnosis and proactive care, as well as help breeders identify affected and carrier dogs.
Golden Retrievers are often described as friendly, reliable, and trustworthy. They are extremely friendly, reliable, and trusting dogs with a playful nature. They get along well with strangers and are great with children, making them excellent family pets. They are also intelligent and eager to please, which makes them highly trainable and a popular choice for work as a guide dog or in search-and-rescue teams.
President Gerald Ford had a Golden Retriever named Liberty. Golden Retrievers are the third most popular dog breed in the United States according to AKC rankings.They are excellent swimmers, and their water-resistant coat and webbed feet assist in their swimming ability.Golden Retrievers are mouthy by nature, which means they love to carry things in their mouth. This habit harks back to their original purpose of retrieving game for hunters.
https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/golden-retriever/https://www.ukcdogs.com/golden-retrieverhttps://www.fci.be/Nomenclature/Standards/111g08-en.pdf https://www.petmd.com/dog/breeds/c_dg_golden_retriever https://www.pawprintgenetics.com/products/breeds/75/
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Have an account?
Log in to check out faster.
Country
---
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Czechia
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Hong Kong SAR
India
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Malaysia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Singapore
South Korea
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Province
Zip/Postal Code

Rs. 0.00
General Information
Star Rating:


Our team is available at (Mon-Sat, 10 AM to 7 PM): 87440-12035/53 (sales)  87440-12036 (support) support@petsworld.in
You will not be allowed to compare more than 4 products at a time
--------------------------------------------------
Learn more about how Purina and Petfinder are making a difference together.
Large
Height:  22 to 24 inches
Weight: 55 to 75 pounds
Various shades of gold from light to dark.
Sporting
Gun Dog
Lifespan: 10 to 12 years
no
Golden Retrievers have never met a stranger, making friends with everyone they encounter. Sunshine embodied, they are known for their devoted and obedient nature as a family companion. Ignoring a Golden’s active nature and powerful physique can lead to behavior problems, though, so they need to have their physical and mental needs met every day. Some Goldens may be overly exuberant and boisterous, but most are eager to please and enjoy learning.

Well-trained and exercised Goldens are calm and mannerly at home, and enthusiastic when invited to play. The Golden Retriever breed’s achievements in competitive obedience are remarkable. This dog especially enjoys games that involve retrieving and loves to carry items in his mouth—it’s preferable that it’s a toy, though, and not a gift from outside.
Dudley Majoribanks, the first Lord Tweedmouth, developed the breed in Scotland during Victorian times. He wanted a breed that was suited to the rainy Scottish climate and could handle the rough terrain of the area. He crossed a Yellow Retriever with a Tweed Water Spaniel to achieve it. Later, Irish Setter and Bloodhound were mixed in to create the exceptional working retriever we know today. The breed has always been popular but it really took off nationally in the 1970s when President Gerald Ford had a Golden Retriever at the White House named Liberty.
A Golden will become your best friend if trained, exercised, and socialized well. They can be goofy and loveable as puppies while they find their footing in the world, but once they’ve settled down a bit they’ll turn into living teddy bears. They love the outdoors—including in wet and rainy conditions—so be prepared for your Golden to want to romp outside no matter the weather. Prepare yourself for muddy paw prints and lots of shedding—it’s part of the charm of life with a Golden Retriever.
Golden Retrievers love being outdoors and burning off energy. They can easily become overweight if not given enough exercise—especially since they love their food!
Goldens were originally bred to be country dogs and maintain that spirit. They do best when they have ample access to the outdoors, but they can adapt to smaller spaces so long as they have plenty of daily exercise.
Golden Retrievers need regular grooming to prevent matting on their lustrous, beautiful coats. Their coats can attract mud and debris on walks, so it’s important to clean them once dry.
Eager to please, enthusiastic, and as happy as they come, Golden Retrievers are great dogs to train. They are smart and respond well to reward-based training, which can help them gain confidence. They love games, especially fetch, where they can show off their natural retriever abilities.
The Golden Retriever is an ideal dog for families. They love everyone, are gentle, and enjoy being involved in all activities, especially anything outdoors. They’ll happily come along for car rides, visits, and more.
The cost of a Golden Retriever from a breeder is significantly more than the cost of adopting one from a local shelter or rescue. The adoption fee usually covers additional items such as spaying or neutering, vaccines, and microchipping.
Interested in adopting a Golden Retriever? Here are answers to some common questions about bringing one of these charming dogs home.
They are very active dogs. If they are acting lethargic, you should contact your vet.
No, but if they do bark it’s usually a friendly one, not an aggressive one.
Learn more about feeding and caring for your Golden Retriever on Purina.
Did you know that grooming can improve your dog’s long-term health? It’s true! Regular grooming sessions not only help your dog feel more comfortable, but they allow you to ensure your dog is in good condition and help you detect early signs of issues that may require a trip to the veterinarian. An
What are the best dogs for kids? It all depends on your household’s activity level, family energy, and living situation. But, in general, you can’t go wrong with a dog that has a gentle demeanor, friendly attitude, trainable nature, and an ability to keep up with your family.  Those characteristics
--------------------------------------------------
