LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Thinking of owning a Gordon Setter and wandering if Gordon Setters are good with cats?
Learn all about Gordon Setter cat friendliness and how to make your Gordon Setter get along better with felines on this website.



A common mistake a lot of people make is believing that all dogs hate cats and vice versa. This isn’t true and there are plenty of pet breeds that are good with felines. Canines that aren’t naturally cat friendly can likewise be trained to be safer around felines.
According to experienced Gordon Setter dog experts, Gordon Setter dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of cat friendliness.



Regardless of the mistaken belief, a lot of canines and cats can live together peacefully. Follow these easy to follow actions to find out how to best introduce your Gordon Setter with a cat.


Not all Gordon Setters dislike felines, some get along with them. When Gordon Setters do dislike cats, of the most typical reason is quite simple. Like all pet dogs, Gordon Setters still keep some of the hunting instincts that they were initially bred for. This is why Gordon Setters like chasing after all moving items, whether it’s a ball, mouse, or a feline.
Given that many felines will flee when they encounter, it’s simple to see why they are known for not getting along with each other. Gordon Setters actually delight in chasing felines not because they dislike them, but generally because a quick running animal sets off a strong, natural instinct to chase overcomes any training or socialisation.


Teaching your Gordon Setter to quit chasing after cats takes some time, training and consistency, but the benefit of not needing to fret about them continually chasing is very well worth it. Here are the phases of how to stop your Gordon Setter from going after felines.


The best technique to ensure your Gordon Setter would never kill a feline is to raise them with cats when they’re a puppy before 3 months old. At this age, they will generally wish to have fun with the cats and will not see them as prey.
If your Gordon Setter has killed a feline before, its ideal if you keep them in an open, fenced off area. When taking them for strolls try to avoid going after sunset and prior to dawn since that’s when felines are very active and likely to be wandering the streets.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
Are you looking for a dog with a Retriever breed temperament and the colors of a Rottweiler or a Doberman? Look no further than the Gordon Setter! This old Scottish retriever breed has been an amazing hunting companion to Scottish lords for centuries but also makes for a fantastic pet today. They are also great field trial competition dogs as they rank very highly in obedience, agility, and confrontation disciplines.
Is the Gordon Setter right for you and your family, however? Do this breed’s unique exercise requirements and personality make them a good fit for your household? Let’s go over the 25 questions that should be considered before getting a Gordon Setter and find out.
Gordon Setters can be great pets for any family that meets their exercise requirements and looks after them properly. Their social, loyal, and loving nature make them a very well-suited breed for indoor life and they are generally considered very low-risk for confrontations with strangers or other such problems. Don’t be fooled by their Doberman-like coat colors – Gordon Setters are not guard dogs.
The average adult male Gordon Setter will be about 24.5 to 27 inches tall at the shoulder (61 to 69 cm). Females are a bit shorter and average between 23 and 26 inches (58 to 66 cm). As for weight, females usually reach 44 to 70 pounds (20 to 32 kg) and males – 55 to 80 pounds (25 to 36 kg).
The average lifespan of Gordon Setters is between 10 and 12 years. This is very much in line with other large dogs of the same type. Besides, this is just an average and a healthy Gordon Setter can live much longer than that with the right care. Pretty much all retriever breeds can comfortably go past 15 years with good care and some are even known to reach 20 years, although that is rare.
This is a pretty healthy breed as it has never been subjected to overly excessive breeding by puppy mills. Still, even healthy breeds have a few conditions you’ll need to watch out for. With Gordon Setters these conditions include:
Most issues that can befall your Gordon Setter are either completely avoidable or can be reliably mitigated with the right care. So, as long as you’ve got a healthy pup from a reputable breeder (and not a puppy mill or a pet store), all you’ll need to do is feed it well, offer plenty of exercise, and don’t skip on the routine vet visits.
Like all other retriever breeds, the Gordon Setter is an incredibly smart breed. These dogs love to learn new things and perform both work tasks and tricks with their owners.
Quite so. Unlike many other highly intelligent dog breeds, the Gordon Setter isn’t overly individualistic and stubborn. Instead, these dogs have the innate instinct to recognize authority and follow commands. Basic obedience training is, of course, still required, but it will go much easier and smoother than with other breeds.
Like all retriever breeds, Gordon Setters are very social animals. They can get along with small and large families alike, and they can be amicable toward strangers if the dog has been socialized well enough.
Separation anxiety is indeed a big problem for Gordon Setters. Or, rather, it can be if you plan on leaving your dog home alone for hours at a time every day. Instead, you should make sure that your dog always has company, be it another family member, a dog walker or dog sitter, a playdate at a fellow dog owner’s, or a second pet at home.
If none of this is provided and you just leave your Gordon Setter home alone for 8-10 hours when you’re at work, you can expect the dog to grow restless, anxious, disobedient, destructive, and depressed.
This breed is pretty kid-friendly, particularly if they get socialized and introduced to the child well enough. Still, because of their large size and high levels of physical activities, supervision is good while the child is still small. This is only in case of falls and other accidents.
Gordon Setters can have a bit of competitiveness and even aggression toward other dogs. This is a bit atypical for a retriever breed but it’s also nothing that can’t be fixed with proper socialization and an adequate introduction between the two dogs. Remember that Gordon Setters respond very well to obedience training so, if you’ve done that, you can teach your setter to deal with almost any situation, including new family members.
If a Gordon Setter is raised with cats, he will likely get along with them. However, if the setter is an adult when it sees a cat for the first time, the dog’s prey instincts will certainly kick in. Your obedience training must be really on-point if you want your Gordon Setter to get along with a new cat as an adult.
These setters are very physically active and need an owner who’s willing to provide them at least two 1-hour walks to and in the dog park a day. Anything less will be unhealthy and mentally unsatisfying to your setter. The dog will also need quite a bit of yard time in addition to the walks, as well as the occasional hiking trip.
A good and fenced yard is strongly recommended for this breed. It’s not 100% but, if you don’t have a yard, you’ll have to compensate with hours in the dog park every day.
This is categorically not an apartment dog. The exercise requirements alone are impractical for apartments. And then there is the barking which we’ll also address below.
Gordon Setters are excellent and enthusiastic swimmers. Hunting ducks was one of the primary tasks of these dogs as hunting companions.
The coat of this breed is long and either straight or wavy. Its color pattern is similar to that of Rottweilers and Dobermans – predominantly black with brown/tan markings on the face, chest, and legs.
This breed is from being anywhere close to hypoallergenic – don’t even consider a Gordon Setter if you have dog allergies.
Gordon Setters need quite a bit of grooming. Expect to have to brush their coat almost daily, bathe them weekly, clean their eyes and ears from time to time, and trim their hair.
Gordon Shedders may not shed as much as German Shepherds but they are still pretty active shedders. That’s one reason why regular brushing and grooming are necessary.
You’d certainly be wise to take your Gordon Setter to a professional groomer at least twice per year or more. This will take a lot of grooming off your hands and keep your dog’s coat and skin healthy. Make sure you start early so the pup can get used to the groomer.
This breed is relatively rare as a family pet in the US but not for any fault of its own. It’s just not “marketed” as well as other breeds. There are breeders you can get a Gordon Setter from, however, so you should have little logistical issues.
These setters are relatively pricey from breeders and tend to cost somewhere between $1,000 and $2,000. Puppy mills and pet stores can be more affordable but dogs there are extremely unhealthy and poorly raised.
These setters don’t have a particularly bad smell unless you’ve neglected their grooming. If the dog smells bad, it’s likely your fault.
Gordon Setters are moderate barkers which is nothing a bit of no-bark training can’t fix.
Aside from barking, this is a pretty talkative breed overall. They are not quite as whiny as a Husky but Gordon Setters do love to communicate verbally.
With all that covered, it should be clear how awesome of a pet Gordon Setters are. While their exercise and grooming requirements mean they are not for everyone, they can be a great pet for outdoorsy types of people. As long as you’d like jogging and the park in the morning and brushing the gorgeous black and brown coat of your dog in the afternoon, a Gordon Setter can make a phenomenal pet for you.
I‘m a pet blogger from Ukraine 🇺🇦, aiming to educate and inspire pet owners to care for their furry friends. My team and I are passionate about making pet ownership fulfilling and rewarding for everyone 🐶
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Anna Tronova, Shutterstock
Last Updated on March 5, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Choosing the right dog breed to adopt can be challenging, as there are just so many out there. But with so many to pick from, you might want to go with a dog that’s a bit more uncommon than, say, a Golden Retriever. If you’re looking for a pup that not everyone will have, you may want to consider the Gordon Setter.
This dog breed is highly active and loves spending time with their humans. They’re also known for their loyalty and make excellent watchdogs. Want to learn more? Keep reading to find out everything you should know about the Gordon Setter!
Height:
23–27 inches
Weight:
45–80 pounds
Lifespan:
12–13 years
Colors:
Black and tan
Suitable for:
Those who are active, families with older children
Temperament:
Active, affectionate, clever, loyal
You might not have heard of the Gordon Setter, but these canines have existed since the 1600s. They came to the United States from Scotland, where they were bred to be bird-hunting dogs. Though they might not be hunters today, these dogs still have a lot of endurance, intelligence, and patience, making them wonderful pets for the right people!

The Gordon Setter is a fairly uncommon breed in the U.S., but there’s a chance you could locate one at your local shelter or from a rescue organization. If you go this route, you might want to see if your shelter has a wait list for specific breeds; if so, put your name on it so you can get your new canine companion sooner rather than later. However, if you don’t have any luck with a shelter or rescue, you’ll need to go through a reputable breeder for your pup. Be warned, though, that this can be a bit pricey.
Once you get your puppy, make sure you have lots of time to dedicate to them. The Gordon Setter has tons of energy and is constantly curious, so these dogs will always be into something! And if they get bored, you can expect them to make their own entertainment.
These canines date back to the 1600s, but it wasn’t until the 1800s that they started to come into their own. People in the U.K. and Scotland were searching for a bird-hunting dog that would lie down quietly when prey was spotted. Many setter breeds came into being during this time, but the Gordon Setter was the heaviest of these breeds, which made it exceptionally suited for Scotland’s rugged landscape.
Not long after, the fourth Duke of Gordon began breeding Black and Tan Setters. When he first started, these setters looked similar to an English Setter, but as he continued mixing breeds (including Black Setters, Black and Tan Collies, and Bloodhounds), the modern Gordon Setter was born.
The Gordon Setter eventually made its way to the States in 1842 and was recognized by the American Kennel Club (AKC) in 1892. At this point, the dogs were still known as Black and Tan Setters; the name Gordon Setter was coined in 1924.

You’ll find that the Gordon Setter is highly affectionate, intelligent, and loyal. These pups adore spending time with their people and can suffer separation anxiety if they are left on their own for long periods. As affectionate as they are with their people, they tend to be more cautious of strangers, so they’ll let you know if someone is approaching your home, making them wonderful watchdogs.
These pups are smart and eager to please, which aids in training them. However, they also tend to have a bit of a stubborn streak, as they prefer to think for themselves! The Gordon Setter is also quite energetic, so they need lots of activity and play each day.
Gordon Setters make fantastic pets for families who are active. However, because the breed is highly energetic, they will likely do better with older children. These pups can get along fairly well with kids once they’ve been properly socialized and trained and tend to be gentle and patient.
The Gordon Setter will watch over everyone in the family and will want to do whatever you’re doing at all times!
Provided they’re properly trained and socialized, the Gordon Setter should get along quite well with other animals in the household, whether those animals are dogs, cats, or other pets. However, this breed is often wary of dogs they don’t know, so any introductions with current dogs in your home should be made carefully! You can help your pup get used to the idea of other dogs by taking them on trips to the dog park or enrolling them in a puppy kindergarten.
Also, always keep an eye on your Gordon Setter when they are around smaller pets. They may get along with them, but this breed was once used as a hunting dog, so they may decide a smaller animal is their prey.

There’s so much more to know about these gorgeous pups, so if you’re considering a Gordon Setter, keep reading! We have all the information you need on how to care for one of these dogs so they live their healthiest, happiest lives.
Like all canines, the Gordon Setter needs high-quality dog food that meets their specific nutritional needs. A dog food created for larger breeds may be ideal, as it will likely not contain an overabundance of protein. Because the Gordon Setter is a larger breed, they need to grow slowly to let their bones mature. This means they require a food that only has 26% protein or less. If their food has more than this amount of protein, it could lead to your dog having problems as they develop. If you’re unsure what brand is best for your pup, speak with your vet, as they’ll be able to give you a recommendation.
Also, speak with your vet about how much to feed your Gordon Setter. The recommended amounts listed on dog food bags are sometimes incorrect, and you want to make sure you don’t feed your dog too much.
Another concern when it comes to eating is how fast your Gordon Setter eats. This breed is prone to bloat, and the risk of bloat increases for canines who eat quickly. If your pet eats too fast, use a puzzle feeder to slow them down or break their meals into smaller, more frequent ones.
We mentioned before that the Gordon Setter is a highly active dog; you’re looking at one to two hours of exercise and play a day with one of these pups! This breed has great endurance and was bred to run, so they’ll enjoy hikes, long walks and runs, and intense play. The Gordon Setter is quite intelligent, too, so they require plenty of mental stimulation! This makes dog sports, such as agility training, perfect for them.
This isn’t a dog that will do well in an apartment. Because they’re larger, they’ll do best in a home that has a yard they can run and play in.
The Gordon Setter is intelligent and eager to please, but they do have a stubborn streak. They prefer thinking for themselves, which can occasionally make training a challenge. But if you start training your pup as soon as you bring them home, you can help combat this stubbornness.
This breed enjoys learning new things but can get bored if training lasts too long. So, keep training sessions short and mix things up to provide variety for your pet!
Remember to socialize with your pup, too. To avoid any issues in the future, you want to make them less cautious of strangers as soon as possible, so be sure to bring them around other dogs, people, and animals as often as possible.
Because this breed has such a long, lush coat, you’ll need to brush your Gordon Setter every other day to prevent mats, tangles, and excessive shedding. You may also want to keep the hair between your pup’s toes and on the bottom of their feet trimmed to prevent the hair from picking up dirt in the warmer months and ice balls in the colder months. Because this breed has heavy, hanging ears, they are more likely to develop ear infections, so you’ll want to check their ears at least once a week. Wipe ears out with a cotton wipe or ball moistened with a dog-friendly ear cleaner.
Other than that, you only need to bathe your dog as needed, trim their nails when they get too long, and brush their teeth regularly!
Overall, the Gordon Setter is a fairly hardy breed. They are prone to a few hereditary health issues, though, so if you go through a breeder, be sure to chat with them about any health tests that were done and what you should know about hereditary conditions.
There won’t be much difference between a male and female Gordon Setter when it comes to personality (although all dogs are individuals!). However, there will be a minute difference in size as males will be a bit larger than females. Whether a female or male is right for you and your family will really be a matter of personal preference.

Excited to learn even more about the Gordon Setter? Here are three facts you might not have known!
Former Secretary of State Daniel Webster and a friend brought the first Gordon Setters to America. Those setters became the foundation of the breed in the U.S.
The AKC was founded in 1884, and the Gordon Setter was recognized in 1892, making it one of the earliest dog breeds to be accepted by the club.
Both Diane Sawyer and Ed McMahon owned Gordon Setters. Sawyer had one named George, while McMahon had one named Juniper Berry.

The Gordon Setter can make a fantastic pet for the right person or family. You must be active to keep up with this breed, though! Besides their high energy, this breed is known for being affectionate and loyal, with a love of shadowing their humans.
However, this dog isn’t for everybody. The Gordon Setter needs someone who is active and lives in a space with a yard where they can play and run. They also need a home without small children, but preferably with someone who is home more often than not.
If you think this breed is the right fit for you, you’re in for a world of adventure!
Featured Image Credit: Anna Tronova, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Misty Layne lives out in the woods in small-town Alabama with her two Siamese - Serafina & Jasper. She also has an array of stray cats, raccoons, and possums who like to call her front porch home. When she’s not writing about animals, you’ll find her writing poetry, stories, and film reviews (the animals are, by far, her favorite writing topic, though!). In her free time, Misty enjoys chilling with her cats, playing piano, watching indie and foreign films, photographing abandoned places, and catching up on her never-ending TBR list.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Gordon Setter breed traces its roots back to Scotland in the early 17th century and was developed as a bird dog to work in the harsh Scottish Highlands. The breed was initially known as the "black and tan setting dog". In the 19th century, the breed gained popularity under the 4th Duke of Gordon, Alexander Gordon, and was subsequently named after him. Gordon Setters were brought to the United States in the 1840s and were recognized by the American Kennel Club in 1892.
Gordon Setters are susceptible to bloat, also known as gastric dilation volvulus (GDV). This is a life-threatening condition that can come on suddenly, so it’s important to know the warning signs and get an affected dog immediate veterinary care. They can suffer from eye disorders including dry eye, progressive retinal atrophy, and cataracts. They may also experience inflammation of the face and lymph nodes as puppies, a condition called juvenile cellulitis. Other conditions that may affect the Gordon Setter seizures, cancer, thyroid issues, cerebellar ataxia, kidney and heart disease, and orthopedic issues such as elbow and hip dysplasia.
Gordon Setters are known for their loyal, intelligent, and sometimes stubborn nature. They are usually good with children and get along well with other dogs if properly socialized from a young age. They are energetic dogs, requiring regular exercise and mental stimulation.While Gordon Setters can be trained for obedience, they are known to have a stubborn streak and can be independent thinkers. This makes consistent, positive reinforcement training essential from a young age. They are sensitive dogs and respond well to gentle, consistent training methods.
Gordon Setters are among the largest of the setter breeds.They have an excellent sense of smell, second only to the Bloodhound.Their coat color, black with tan markings, became standardized only in the late 19th century.The Gordon Castle Setters, bred by the Duke of Gordon, were originally tri-color (black, tan, and white). The white was later bred out of the breed.They are the only Scottish setter breed recognized by the American Kennel Club.
https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/gordon-setter/ https://pets.webmd.com/dogs/what-to-know-gordon-setters#091e9c5e824290cf-3-9  https://ofa.org/chic-programs/browse-by-breed/?breed=GSE  https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24516392/   https://www.fci.be/Nomenclature/Standards/006g07-en.pdfhttps://www.ukcdogs.com/gordon-setter
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Menu
Gordon Setter—Photo Courtesy of David Hancock
gawr-dn set-er
The Gordon Setter is slender, but robust in structure. The head is deep with a long muzzle. The muzzle should be about as long as the skull, with a defined stop. The black nose is broad. The teeth meet in a scissors or level bite. The oval eyes are dark brown. The long ears are set low, about level with the eyes, hanging close to the head. The topline slopes slightly from front to back. The short tail is not docked, and does not reach the hocks. Dewclaws are sometimes removed. The soft, shiny coat is either slightly wavy or straight. The hair on the ears, under the stomach, chest, the backside of the legs, and on the tail is longer than it is on the rest of the body. The feathering on the underside of the tail starts out longer at the base and get shorter as it reaches the tip, giving the appearance of a triangle. The Gordon Setter is the only setter that comes in black with tan markings. The tan markings are either rich chestnut or mahogany in color and appear over the eyes, on the sides of the muzzle, on the throat, two spots on the chest, on the legs, and on the vent. There may be a small white spot on the chest.
The Gordon Setter is distinguished both for its loyalty and obedience. It is a polite, sweet-tempered, devoted dog, making an enjoyable companion that is excellent with children. Intelligent and willing, it is a skilled hunter that is seldom wrong about a scent. Brave, cheerful and affectionate, This breed needs lots of exercise or it may become high-strung. Very loyal to the family, it can be distant with strangers. Generally good with other pets but may try to dominate if it is lacking in human leadership. Proper human to canine communication is essential. This breed likes to roam, so it is a good idea to have a fenced-in yard. Puppies may be clumsy. Train early with good leadership before bad habits set in; while not impossible, it is easier to prevent negative behaviors than it is to fix them. Training these dogs is certainly not difficult, provided the owners are firm, but calm. If they sense the owners are meek or passive they will become stubborn. This dog should be introduced to all situations (people, animals and things) as a young pup to produce a well-balanced dog. A Gordon Setter that has been introduced as a puppy to cats will get along well with them. If strangers visit, they adopt a wait-and-see attitude. In general they get along well with other dogs and with children because they are friendly to everyone.
Height: Males 24 - 27 inches (61 - 69 cm) Females 23 - 26 inches (58 - 66 cm)
    Weight: Males 55 - 80 pounds (25 - 36 kg) Females 45 - 70 pounds (20 - 32 kg)
    Field lines are often smaller and lighter than show lines (bench types).
Generally healthy, but some are prone to hip dysplasia, eye diseases such as progressive retinal atrophy (PRA) and cataracts. These dogs are prone to bloat and should be fed two or three small meals a day rather than one big one.
The Gordon Setter is not recommended for apartment life. It is relatively inactive indoors (if a Gordon Setter gets enough outdoor activity it will be calm when it is indoors) and does best with at least a large, safely fenced yard where it can run free. Their hunting instincts lure them to roam, so a good fence around your property is essential.
About 10-12 years.
About 6 to 8 puppies
Regular combing and brushing of the soft, flat, medium-length coat is all that is required to keep it in excellent condition. It is important to check for burrs and tangles, and to give extra care when the dog is shedding its coat. Bathe or dry shampoo only when necessary. Trim the hair on the bottom of the feet and keep the nails clipped. This breed is an average shedder.
The Gordon Setter was developed in Scotland in the early 17th century. This black and tan setter became popular by Duke Alexander IV of Gordon in the early 19th century. They were used as bird dogs, having an outstanding sense of smell. The dogs would point toward the fallen bird, retrieve it and bring it back to the hunter. The Gordon had great stamina and could hunt in bad weather on both land and water, but was not as fast in comparison to the pointers and as a result started to lose popularity as hunters chose other breeds. The Gordon Setter was one of the breeds that were used in the development of the Irish Setter. The Gordon makes a good one-man shooting dog. The Gordon Setter was recognized by the AKC in 1884. Some of the Gordon Setter's talents include guarding, watchdog, hunting, tracking, pointing and retrieving.
Gun Dog, AKC Sporting
Dexter Nova Bright Star the Gordon Setter as a puppy at 15 weeks old
"These are photos of our Gordon Setter Crownline's Sunset Pride (Sunny). She was only 6 weeks old in the photos (she's an adult now). Not only is she beautiful, but she is incredibly intelligent. She fits the description of the breed to a T. She's highly intelligent, loving, lives to please Daddy, loves to hunt and extremely energetic. Luckily we have a large fenced-in yard for her to run out her energy. My husband built her a huge house and kennel, but he said we should've just bought her a queen-sized pillow-top bed since that's where she sleeps now! We are so blessed to have her in our life."
Sparkling Color Bright Star (Rocky) the Gordon Setter at 23 months
Duff the Gordon Setter at 7 years old
Duff the Gordon Setter at 7 years old
Sparkling Color Bright Star (Rocky) the Gordon Setter at 2 ½ years old
Sparkling Color Bright Star (Rocky) at 29 months, owned by Stephanie Mogollon
Dexter Nova Bright Star the Gordon Setter at 15 ½ months
5-year-old Gordon Setter resting on the couch
--------------------------------------------------
