Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share
VET APPROVED
Reviewed & fact-checked by
Dr. Lauren Demos
DVM (Veterinarian)
The information is current and up-to-date in accordance with the latest veterinarian research.
Click to Skip Ahead
Great Danes are generally considered loving, friendly, and surprisingly gentle dogs. They seem to have an inherent understanding of their size and the threat that it causes, and this includes the way that they approach cats.
Great Danes are considered one of the best breeds to keep with cats, although accidents can still happen, and there is no guarantee that your cat will easily welcome a new giant addition to your home without at least some reluctance.

The Great Dane is a giant dog breed that is generally regarded as the tallest breed in the world. Welcoming one into your home is certainly not something to undertake on a whim. With that said, they don’t require an excessive amount of exercise, are agreeable and relatively easy to socialize and train, and are considered loyal and loving family dogs. If you do have the physical room for one, a Great Dane can make a great and welcome addition to your home.
Great Danes are said to have an understanding of their size. Typically, this means that they don’t get under your feet, and while they may still try to sit on your lap, they can be gentle and careful around children and even around cats.
Of course, there is no guarantee that any dog or any breed will get on with a cat. It primarily depends on the individual’s nature but also on the amount of socialization and training the dog has and how well the dog and cat are introduced.
When introducing a Great Dane to a cat, it is important to remember the size difference, especially in the eyes of the cat. Even a relatively small Great Dane is huge compared to the cat and is likely to scare your feline family member, especially if they have no experience with large dogs.
Ensure your cat has an escape route and somewhere to go if the introduction becomes overwhelming. High spots will be beneficial escape spots for your cat, but they will need to be very high up; having alternative routes and hiding places is also a good plan.
Ideally, walk the dog before the first introduction to ensure that they are tired out. This will help to curb some of the enthusiasm for meeting a new animal.  Also, stay calm during the interaction. If your cat or dog determines that you are afraid or nervous, they will react to this. Use a calming voice when speaking to both animals and hold the cat while the two are in the same room. Try not to let them get nose to nose straight away, and if the cat gets agitated, remove them from the area.
If things go well, let them meet for a few minutes before moving the cat away. You can repeat this process for a few days, eventually letting go of the cat and letting the animals sniff one another.
Don’t leave the animals alone together during the early meetings. If the Dane gets excited and boisterous, it could accidentally injure the cat, and this will set the whole process back.

Great Danes are beautiful and affectionate dogs, but they aren’t suitable for all owners or homes. If you have cats and are looking for breeds of dog that are known to be food with cats, here are five other breeds to consider:
Let’s face it, the Golden Retriever is known to get along with anybody and everything including family, friends, neighbors, the mailman, and even intruders. They also get along well with cats, and you may find that your Goldie and your cat form a close bond over time.
The Labrador Retriever is a close cousin to the Golden Retriever and shares many of its attributes. However, it isn’t quite as level-headed or sensible and tends to have a bit more of a playful, even daft, attitude. If your cat is quite robust and enjoys running around, a Lab could be a good option.
Despite outward appearances, the Basset Hound is actually a skilled hunter. But when they’ve not got their nose to the ground hunting, they tend to have their nose to the ground napping, and, for the most part, they won’t even acknowledge the existence of a cat in their house. Just bear in mind that your Basset might get jealous of the attention you give the cat.
Poodles come in three sizes, and all are suitable for cats in their own way. The toy is the smallest of the Poodle breeds and will usually be quite playful and may consider the cat one of its own. The Miniature is in the middle in terms of Poodle size and will usually befriend or at least put up with the feline intrusion. The Standard, which is the biggest Poodle size, could probably go several years without acknowledging the cat in their house.
The Pug is a playful and generally friendly dog that is about the same size as a cat. Its goofy nature means that it will probably enjoy having a playmate, so if your cat is more of the relaxed type that prefers a quiet life, you may need to consider a different breed of dog!

Dogs and cats can and do live together in perfect harmony, but certain breeds of dogs are known to get along better with cats than others. The Great Dane’s size means that they can scare cats, but their friendly and loving nature means that they won’t usually do anything to intentionally harm the cat. Of course, their massive frame means that accidents can happen, and if the size does pose too much of a challenge, other cat-friendly breeds make good alternatives.
Featured Image Credit: ButtermilkgirlVirginia, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
4 Homemade Grain-Free Cat Treat Recipes (Vet Approved)
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Why Do Cats Eat Plants? Feline Behavior Explained (Vet Answer)
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Cats
Cats
Info
© All Rights Reserved Hepper 2025
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
The Great Dane may be a large dog but they are true gentle giants and as such they have become a popular choice both as family pets and companion dogs not only in the UK but elsewhere in the world too. They boast very kind playful natures and seem to have an affinity with children of all ages. Their devotion and loyalty to their owners matches a Great Dane's impressive looks.
Great Danes are a noble dignified breed but for such large dogs they can be quick off the mark when the occasion arises and they love nothing more than to be part of a family and being involved in everything that goes on in a household. Great Danes being one of the larger breeds sadly have quite a short life span and they are known to suffer from a few health issues but with this said the pros far outweigh any cons about the breed which is why they have consistently remained such a popular breed.
The history of the Great Dane can be traced all the way back to Ancient Egypt with images of similar looking dog being found on monuments that date back to 3000 BC. Artifacts found in Babylonian temples and images of ancient Assyrian people with large dogs that resemble the Great Dane from 2000 BC. There are those who believe that dogs resembling the breed could well have originated in Tibet and there is a striking similarity between Great Danes and Tibetan Mastiffs with early records of the dogs being found in Chinese writings that date back to 1121 BC.
It is thought that Assyrian traders sold their dogs to Romans and to the people of Ancient Greece. The Romans took up the gauntlet and began breeding these dogs to other dogs they had found in Britain. As such it is thought that both English and Tibetan Mastiffs are in the breed's ancestry. There are those who also think that other breeds namely the Irish Greyhound and the Irish Wolfhound may well have been used to develop the breed over time with the Comte de Buffon a French naturalist in the 1700's believed the Irish Wolfhound was the main ancestor of the Great Dane. He based his theory on the fact that both the English and the Romans took large dogs with them which they crossed to the Irish Wolfhound.
The debate however continued with the Baron Cuview believing that the breeds responsible for creating the Great Dane were in fact the Irish Wolfhound and the English Mastiff with the earliest crossed having been called "Boar Hounds" because they were used to hunt wild boar. It was during the 16th Century that these dogs were called English Dogges. By the end of the 16th Century German aristocracy and noblemen bred large hunting dogs which were known as Kammerbunde which translated means "Chamber Dogs" because they were kept inside rather than in kennels outside.
It was the Comte de Buffon who named the breed the "Great Dane" after having travelled through Denmark where he spotted similar looking dogs to the Boar Hound that were slimmer much like the Greyhound. He thought it was because of the Danish weather that the dogs had changed in appearance and decided to call them the Grand Danois which then became the Great Danish Dog with heavier dogs being called Danish Mastiffs.
The "Dane" side of the breed's name stuck even though the Great Dane was not developed in any way whatsoever in Denmark. Breed enthusiasts all agree that these handsome statuesque dogs were developed in Germany having been imported by noblemen during the 17th and 18th Century. By the end of the 18th Century it was decided that the dogs found in Germany were vastly different to the heavier dogs found in Britain namely the English Mastiff and as such they decided to call them the German Dog or Deutsche Dogge. The Deutsche Doggen Club of Germany was then established.
However other European countries did not take to the breed being called Deutsche Dogge with the Italians calling the breed the "Alano" even to this day. In other parts of the world the breed is known as the Great Dane with their first appearance in the UK being in 1877 when they became a very popular choice with owners of large estates where they continued to be used to hunt game by nobility. In 1885 the first breed club was established in the UK and from then onwards these proud and noble dogs have become a popular choice as family pets and companions all thanks to their wonderfully loyal friendly natures and stunning looks.
Height at the withers: Males 76 - 81 cm Females 71 - 76 cm
Average weight: Males 54 - 62 kg Females 46 - 54 kg
Their nostrils are large and open which adds a blunt appearance to their nose and their lips hang slightly at the front. Eyes are deep set and medium in size being dark in colour although dogs with harlequin coats can have either wall or odd coloured eyes which is permissible. Ears are triangular and moderate in size being set high on a dog's head and they fold forward without being too pendulous.
They boast a deep brisket with well sprung ribs and their belly is well drawn up. Their back is strong with loins being slightly arched. A Great Dane's hindquarters are extremely well developed and muscular showing that these dogs have a tremendous amount of power when needed. Back legs are powerful and well-muscled and their feet are very cat-like with dogs boasting well arched toes and strong curved nails that are dark in colour with the exception being in harlequin dogs when their nails are lighter in colour which is permissible as a breed standard. Their tail is thicker at the root but it tapers to the tip which dogs carry level to their backs and slightly curved when they are on the move.
When it comes to coat the Great Dane boasts a short thick coat that is sleek to the touch and not rough feeling at all. The accept breed colours for Kennel Club registration are as follows:
Great Danes with brindle coats have a lighter buff to deep orange ground colour with black stripes.
Fawn coats can be a light buff right through to a deep orange with darker shades around a Great Dane's head and ears which is allowed under the KC breed standard
Blue coats can range from a lighter grey right through to a much deeper slate
The Kennel Club frowns on any sort of exaggeration or departure from the breed standard and would judge the faults on how much they affect a dog's overall health and wellbeing as well as their ability to perform.
Males should have both testicles fully descended into their scrotums and it is worth noting that a Great Dane may be a little shorter or taller as well as slightly lighter or heavier than set out in the KC breed standard which is given as a guide only.
Great Danes are renowned for their friendly and outgoing natures. They may be imposing to look at but they are extremely mild mannered and affectionate dogs that enjoy nothing more than being given lots of attention. They are a great choice as family pets and companion dogs although care should be taken when these larger than life dogs are around toddlers simply because they may knock a very small child over albeit by accident.
They very rarely show any sort of aggressive behaviour and this includes towards other dogs. However they are not the best choice for first time owners because Great Danes need to be correctly trained and handled by someone who really understands the breed. Their training needs to start early and it must be consistent for dogs to understand their place in the pack and who is the alpha dog in a household. If they are not handled correctly and given the right sort of guidance from a young age a Great Dane might well become wilful and unruly which in such a large dog can present a massive problem given their size when fully grown.
They are renowned for being incredibly loyal to their families and are especially good around children. However the downside to their devotion is that Great Danes hate it when they are left on their own. As such they are better suited to households where at one person stays at home when everyone else is out so that they never spend too much time on their own.
Given their sheer size and the fact they are powerful and sometimes stubborn dogs Great Danes are not the best choice for first time dog owners. They must be well handled socialised and trained from a young age by people who are familiar with the needs of such a large breed bearing in mind that a cute albeit robust puppy quickly grows into an extremely powerful and large dog. Great Danes love to laze around but they also need enough room to sprawl out and to express themselves as they should.
Great Danes have a very playful side to their natures and are renowned for being "goofy" when they mood takes them. They adore being entertained and entertaining their families and being so clever a Great Dane quickly learns what their owners like and don't like. With this said playtime can get a bit boisterous and given their sheer size games are best played outside in the garden to prevent too many breakages in the home.
Great Danes are large dogs that need to have enough space to express themselves as they should. As such they are not the best choice for people who live in smaller apartments or houses but are quite happy to live in towns providing their owners have large secure back gardens for their pets to romp in whenever they can. Another thing prospective owners need to take into account is that Great Danes do not fit well in smaller cars thanks to their large size.
Great Danes form strong ties with their families and dogs are never very happy when they find themselves left on their own for longer periods of time. They are better suited to people who either work from home or in households where one person stays at home when everyone else is out so they are never alone for any length of time which could see a dog suffering from separation anxiety. This can lead to them being destructive around the home which is a dog's way of relieving any stress they are feeling and a way to keep themselves entertained.
Great Danes are not known to be barkers and will only voice an opinion when they think it is necessary to do so. In short when a Great Dane barks it is for good reason and not just because they feel like it.
Most Great Danes love swimming and will take to the water whenever they can more especially when the weather is hot. However if anyone who owns a dog that does not like water should never force them to go in because it would just end up scaring them. With this said care should always be taken when walking a Dane off the lead anywhere near more dangerous watercourses just in case a dog decides to leap in and then needs rescuing.
Great Danes natural watchdogs just because of their size alone. It would be fair to describe them as being "great watchdogs" but not particularly good "guard dogs". In short they always let an owner know when there are strangers about or when they don't like something that's going on in their environment but other than that they would typically greet a person rather than attack them.
Great Danes are intelligent dogs but they need to be trained correctly by someone who is familiar with this type of dog. Their education and training needs to start when they are still puppies and it needs to be consistent throughout their lives for them to be manageable and well behaved mature dogs.
The key to successfully training a Great Dane is for puppies to be extremely well socialised as soon as they are fully vaccinated and to use positive reinforcement methods because like many other breeds Great Danes do not respond well to harsher training methods because they are sensitive dogs by nature. Owners must set ground rules for puppies so they understand what is expected of them bearing in mind that a young Great Dane will always tests these from time to time. The first commands a puppy should be taught are as follows:
Great Danes are known to get on well with children and are known to have a real affinity with kids of all ages but due to their large size any interaction between dogs and children should be supervised just in case playtime gets too boisterous and a child ends up getting accidentally knocked over which could end up frightening or injuring them.
Rarely would a Great Dane show any sort of aggressive behaviour towards other dogs and they are known to get on with other animals which includes family cats if they have grown up together. However care needs to be taken when a Great Dane is around any smaller pets because they do have quite a high prey drive and as such any introductions must be done carefully so that things go smoothly.
The average life expectancy of a Great Dane is between 8 and 10 years when properly cared for and fed an appropriate good quality diet to suit their ages.
The Great Dane is prone to some health problems and prospective owners should consult their breeders about the following known issues in the breed.
Responsible Great Dane breeders would always follow the guidelines set out below which covers colour ethics for the breed:
Prospective owners should also be aware that breeding harlequin Great Danes to white merle piebald and tweed coloured dogs could result in puppies carrying the gene mutation responsible for deafness blindness and skin issues. As such breeders are strongly advised not to carry out such breeding programmes.
Great Dane puppies would have been given their initial vaccinations before being sold but it is up to their new owners to make sure they have their follow-up shots in a timely manner with the vaccination schedule for puppies being as follows:
There has been a lot of discussion about the need for dogs to have boosters. As such it's best to talk to a vet before making a final decision on whether a dog should continue to have annual vaccinations which are known as boosters.
A lot of vets these days recommend waiting until dogs are slightly older before spaying and neutering them which means they are more mature before undergoing the procedures. As such they advise neutering males and spaying females when they are between the ages of 6 to 9 months old and sometimes even when a dog is 12 months old and because the Great Dane is known to suffer from osteosarcoma some vets recommend waiting until a dog is older before they undergo the surgery.
Other vets recommend spaying and neutering dogs when they are 6 months old but never any earlier unless for medical reasons. With this said many breeds are different and it is always advisable to discuss things with a vet and then follow their advice on when a dog should be spayed or neutered because they could be medical and health reasons for doing so early or later in a dog's life.
Some Great Danes gain weight after they have been spayed or neutered and it's important to keep an eye on a dog's waistline just in case they do. If a dog starts to put on weight it's important to adjust their daily calorie intake and to up the amount of exercise they are given. Older Danes too are more prone to gaining weight and again it's essential they be fed and exercised accordingly because obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years. The reason being that it puts a lot of extra strain on a dog's internal organs including the heart.
Great Danes are prone to suffering from allergies and more especially flea allergic dermatitis and it's important for a dog to see a vet sooner rather than later if one flares up. Allergies can be notoriously hard to clear up and finding the triggers can be challenging. With this said a vet would be able to make a dog with an allergy more comfortable while they try to find out the triggers which could include the following:
All responsible Great Dane breeders would ensure that their stud dogs are tested for known hereditary and congenital health issues known to affect the breed by using the following schemes:
Apart from the standard breeding restrictions that are set out by the Kennel club for all recognised breeds there are no other breed specific breeding restrictions for Great Danes.
The Kennel Club strongly advises that all breeders including KC Assured Breeders use the following schemes on stud dogs:
As with any other breed Great Danes need to be groomed on a regular basis to make sure their coats and skin are kept in top condition bearing in mind that the breed is known to suffer from flea allergic dermatitis. They also need to be given regular daily exercise to ensure they remain fit and healthy. On top of this they need to be fed good quality food that meets all their nutritional needs throughout their lives.
It's best to pick a puppy up when people are going to be around for the first week or so which is the time needed for a puppy to settle in. Puppy-proofing the home and garden means putting away any tools and other implements that a boisterous puppy might injure themselves on. Electric wires and cables must be put out of their reach because puppies love chewing on things. Toxic plants should be removed from flowerbeds and the home too.
Puppies need to sleep a lot to grow and develop as they should which means setting up a quiet area that's not too out of the way means they can retreat to it when they want to nap and it's important not to disturb them when they are sleeping. It's also a good idea to keep "playtime" nice and calm inside the house and to have a more active "playtime" outside in the garden which means puppies quickly learn to be less boisterous when they are inside.
The documentation a breeder provides for a puppy must have all the details of their worming date and the product used as well as the information relating to their microchip. It is essential for puppies to be wormed again keeping to a schedule which is as follows:
There are certain items that new owners need to already have in the home prior to bringing a new puppy home. It's often a good idea to restrict how much space a puppy plays in more especially when you can't keep an eye on what they get up to bearing in mind that puppies are often quite boisterous which means investing in puppy gates or a large enough playpen that allows a Dane puppy the room to express themselves while keeping them safe too. The items needed are therefore as follows:
All puppies are sensitive to noise including Great Dane puppies. It's important to keep the noise levels down when a new puppy arrives in the home. TVs and music should not be played too loud which could end up stressing a small puppy out.
As previously mentioned Dane puppies would have been given their first vaccinations by the breeders but they must have their follow up shots which is up to their new owners to organise. The vaccination schedule for puppies is as follows:
When it comes to boosters it's best to discuss these with a vet because there is a lot of debate about whether a dog really needs them after a certain time. However if a dog ever needed to go into kennels their vaccinations would need to be
Older Danes need lots of special care because as they reach their golden years they are more at risk of developing certain health concerns. Physically a dog's muzzle may start to go grey but there will be other noticeable changes too which includes the following:
Living with a Great Dane in their golden years means taking on a few more responsibilities but these are easily managed and should include taking a look at their diet the amount of exercise they are given how often their dog beds need changing and keeping an eye on the condition of their teeth.
Older Danes need to be fed a good quality diet that meets their needs at this stage of their lives all the while keeping a close eye on a dog's weight. A rough feeding guide for older Great Danes is as follows bearing in mind they should be fed highly digestible food that does not contain any additives:
Older Great Danes don't need to be given the same amount of daily exercise as a younger dog but they still need the right amount of physical activity to maintain muscle tone and to prevent a dog from putting on too much weight. All dogs need access to fresh clean water and this is especially true of older dogs when they reach their golden years because they are more at risk of developing kidney disorders.
Great Danes are low maintenance on the grooming front because they boast short and close coats. However a weekly brush is essential to keep things tidy and to remove any dead or shed hair. Like other breeds they tend to shed more during the Spring and then again in the Autumn when more frequent brushing may be necessary to keep on top of things.
Great Danes boast having a ton of energy which they need to expend and this means they have to be given a minimum of 2 hours exercise every day. They also need to have lots of space to move around due to their very large size and ideally they should be allowed to run around a back garden as often as possible so they can really let off steam but only if the garden has very secure fencing.
With this said puppies only need to be given a small amount of daily exercise because their joints and bones are still developing. Putting too much pressure on their joints could see dogs developing painful joint problems later in their lives.
If you get a Great Dane puppy from a breeder they would give you a feeding schedule and it's important to stick to the same routine feeding the same puppy food to avoid any tummy upsets. You can change a puppy's diet but this needs to be done very gradually always making sure they don't develop any digestive upsets and if they do it's best to put them back on their original diet and to discuss things with the vet before attempting to change it again.
Older dogs are not known to be fussy or finicky eaters but this does not mean you can feed them a lower quality diet. It's best to feed a mature dog twice a day once in the morning and then again in the evening making sure it's good quality food that meets all their nutritional requirements. It's also important that dogs be given the right amount of exercise so they burn off any excess calories or they might gain too much weight which can lead to all sorts of health issues. Obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years so it's important to keep an eye on their waistline from the word go.
Puppies need to be fed a highly nutritious good quality diet for them to develop and grow as they should. As a rough guide a Dane puppy can be fed the following amounts every day making sure their meals are evenly spread out throughout the day and it's best to feed them 3 or 4 times a day:
Once a puppy is 18 months old they can be fed adult dog food.
Once fully mature an adult Great Dane must be fed a good quality diet to ensure their continued good health. As a rough guide an adult Great Dane can be fed the following amounts every day:
If you are looking to buy a Great Dane you would need to pay anything from £600 to over £100 for a well-bred pedigree puppy. The cost of insuring a male 3-year-old Great Dane in northern England would be £66.35 a month for basic cover but for a lifetime policy this would set you back £114.38 a month (quote as of October 2107). When insurance companies calculate a pet's premium they factor in several things which includes where you live in the UK and a dog's age and whether they have been neutered or spayed.
When it comes to food costs you need to buy the best quality food whether wet or dry to feed your dog throughout their lives making sure it suits the different stages of their lives. This would set you back between £50 - £60 a month for one of these large dogs. On top of this you would need to factor in veterinary costs if you want to share your home with a Great Dane and this includes their initial vaccinations their annual boosters the cost of neutering or spaying your dog when the time is right and then their yearly health checks all of which quickly adds up to over a £1400 a year.
As a rough guide the average cost to keep and care for a Great Dane would be between £120 to £180 a month depending on the level of insurance cover you opt to buy for your dog but this does not include the initial cost of buying a well-bred pedigree Kennel Club registered puppy.
When visiting and buying any puppy or dog there are many important things to consider and questions to ask of the breeder/seller. You can read our generic puppy/dog advice here which includes making sure you see the puppy with its mother and to verify that the dog has been wormed and microchipped.
Great Danes are a very popular breed both in the UK and elsewhere in the world which means that well-bred puppies command a lot of money. As such with Great Danes there is specific advice questions and protocols to follow when buying a puppy which are as follows:
--------------------------------------------------
The Great Dane truly deserves the nickname “gentle giant”. These dogs are indeed giant, muscular and strong, but they have a friendly expression and a genuine desire to please everyone around them, humans or pets. They can be easily recognised due to their large stature as well as their long, rectangular head. Their short, sleek coat comes in a range of colours.
The Great Dane is an affectionate dog, ideally suited to the active family. They can become very close and loyal to their family and even to frequent visitors. They are quick to alert the family of any strangers approaching their territory, as they are excellent guard dogs and can sometimes be territorial and not welcoming of canine intruders. Puppy socialisation and puppy training is of particular importance in such a canine giant.
Country of Origin: Germany
Despite their name, the Great Dane is a German breed and has been known as the German Mastiff or the Deutsche Dogge. The ancestors of this breed have been known since ancient times but they were far heavier and more mastiff in appearance. In the Middle Ages they became popular as high-status hunting dogs of royalty often working in a pack to hunt wild boar. The Great Dane as we know it today however didn’t come into being until the 19th century when it had become both taller and more lightweight - possibly with the inclusion of Greyhound or other large hounds. While they have worked as guard dogs, the modern Great Dane was bred for docility and so his impressive bark is far worse than his bite!
The Great Dane would suit an owner who is at home a lot (as they are not easily portable), has lots of space and is able to cope with a friendly dog whose head is on the level of every worktop but thinks he is a lapdog!
The Great Dane is predisposed to a number of problems that are common in large breeds of dog, including a specific stomach condition (gastric dilation volvulus), heart disease, a variety of bone disorders, and a particular type of aggressive bone tumour (osteosarcoma).
A fit Great Dane adult will need in the region of a couple of hours of exercise daily. They enjoy walks and will happily go along will the family on their outdoor activities. But they are also keen on spending time in front of the fire, enjoying any creature comforts that are available. Dog exercise must be given in limited amounts during the growth period, as too much can cause serious bone, joint and muscle problems.
The Great Dane is a dog who needs a lot of space - both in the house and in the garden - and is best suited to a large rural property.
Giant-breed dogs, as well as having giant appetites, benefit from a different balance of minerals and vitamins, supporting different joint and cartilage needs. Great Danes are prone to bloating and stomach problems. Try feeding smaller, more frequent meals to help minimise the risk.
The short, sleek and dense coat of the Great Dane is low-maintenance and needs grooming about every week to 10 days. They can be groomed using a rubber-grooming mitt, which will remove the loose and dead hairs.
Such a giant breed needs training to make sure they are safe and social members of canine society. It is especially important that they learn to walk well on a lead and that they have a good recall - especially as their size can intimidate other dogs and people. Great Danes can enjoy reward-based training and some have been seen competing in obedience.
Dog socialisation activities should be prioritised and ongoing.
Great Danes can make great family dogs but they are often just too big to live easily with smaller children.
While many dogs are traditionally thought of as being good with children, all dogs and children need to be taught to get on with and respect each other, and be safe together. Even so, dogs and young children should never be left alone together and adults should supervise all interactions between them.
--------------------------------------------------
Also known as: Deutsche Dogge, German MastiffOrigin: GermanyPurpose: Companion, guardian, hunting (historically)
Generally friendly and social, but requires proper socialization
Moderate maintenance requirements, primarily due to size and grooming needs
Overall health score based on common issues and life expectancy
Moderate adaptability, requires specific conditions for optimal well-being
This breed is very affectionate and forms strong bonds with their family
Shows somewhat high energy levels and requires appropriate exercise
Displays moderately high intelligence and learning capability
moderately outgoing and welcoming towards people and other animals
Shows moderately protective instincts towards family and territory
Moderate suitability for first-time owners, requires commitment
Moderate trainability, requires patience and consistency
Suitability: Low. Requires: Multiple daily walks, Access to dog parks, Regular outdoor activities
Suitability: High. Ideal features include: Fenced yard, Space for indoor play, Access to outdoor activities
Sensitive to extreme temperatures due to short coat and large size. Struggles in both hot and cold climates.
Gentle and patient with children, but supervision recommended due to size
Recommendations:
Reserved with strangers but warms up with time
Generally good with other dogs, but early socialization is key
Best Practices:
Can coexist with cats if introduced early and properly
The Great Dane, often referred to as the "Apollo of Dogs," is a breed that combines elegance, strength, and a gentle temperament. Known for their towering stature and regal presence, these dogs have captured the hearts of many. But what does it take to care for a Great Dane? This guide will walk you through everything you need to know about this magnificent breed.
The Great Dane, or Deutsche Dogge, hails from Germany, where it was originally bred for hunting wild boar. Over time, their role shifted from hunting to guarding estates and serving as loyal companions. Despite their name, the Great Dane is not Danish but has a rich German heritage.
Great Danes are one of the tallest dog breeds, often mistaken for small horses! Their short, smooth coat comes in a variety of striking colors, making each Dane unique.
Great Danes are known for their gentle and affectionate nature. Despite their imposing size, they are often described as "gentle giants." They are loyal, loving, and thrive on human companionship.
While Great Danes are large, they are not overly energetic. Regular exercise is essential to keep them healthy and happy, but avoid strenuous activities that could strain their joints.
Their short coat is easy to care for, but regular brushing helps manage shedding and keeps their coat shiny.
Great Danes are intelligent and eager to please, making them relatively easy to train. However, their size means that early and consistent training is crucial. Focus on basic obedience and socialization to ensure they grow into well-mannered adults.
Despite their size, Great Danes can adapt to various living situations, including apartments, as long as they get enough exercise. However, they do best in homes with ample space to move around.
Great Danes are adaptable but thrive in environments where they can be close to their human family. They are not suited for long periods of solitude.
Great Danes have a relatively short lifespan of 7-10 years. This is something potential owners should be prepared for.
Regular veterinary check-ups and a healthy diet can help manage these risks.
The cost of a Great Dane puppy can vary based on lineage, breeder reputation, and location.
This includes food, grooming, veterinary care, and other essentials. Given their size, food costs can be significant.
The Great Dane is a magnificent and loving breed that can bring immense joy to the right household. While they require some special considerations due to their size, their gentle nature and loyalty make them wonderful companions. If you're ready for the commitment, a Great Dane could be the perfect addition to your family.
Final Thought: Owning a Great Dane is a rewarding experience, but it comes with responsibilities. Ensure you're fully prepared to meet their needs, and you'll be rewarded with a loyal, loving companion for years to come.
Your experience with Great Dane could help others make informed decisions. Join our community to share your insights!
Unable to load comments. Please try again later.
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Great Dane is a majestic and imposing breed with a rich history that can be traced back to ancient civilizations. It is believed to have originated in Germany, where it was developed by crossing the English Mastiff with Irish Wolfhounds. Initially, they were used for hunting large game, such as wild boars and deer. Over time, their roles evolved, and they became popular as estate guardians and eventually as companion dogs.
Great Danes, as with all large breeds, are susceptible to bloat, also known as gastric dilation volvulus (GDV). This is a life-threatening condition that can come on suddenly, so it’s important to know the warning signs and get an affected dog immediate veterinary care. They may also suffer from hip dysplasia, hypertrophic osteodystrophy, Wobbler Syndrome, osteochondritis, hypothyroidism, osteosarcoma, cardiomyopathy, degenerative myelopathy, ichthyosis, and leukoencephalomyelopathy.
Despite their large and imposing appearance, Great Danes are generally known for their gentle and friendly nature. They are loyal and affectionate companions, often referred to as "gentle giants." Great Danes are typically good with children and other animals, making them suitable family pets. However, due to their size, early and consistent training and socialization are essential to ensure they are well-behaved and well-adjusted dogs.
The Great Dane's massive size has earned it the nickname "Apollo of Dogs" and "King of Dogs."Despite their name, the breed has no Danish origins and is believed to have been developed in Germany."Scooby-Doo," the famous fictional cartoon character, is depicted as a Great Dane.The tallest dog ever recorded, according to the Guinness World Records, was a Great Dane named Zeus, measuring an astounding 44 inches tall at the shoulder.Great Danes have a short and smooth coat that lies flat against their body. The coat is dense and glossy, offering good protection from various weather conditions.
https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/great-dane/  https://www.ukcdogs.com/great-dane  https://www.fci.be/en/nomenclature/GREAT-DANE-235.htmlhttps://www.pawprintgenetics.com/products/breeds/140/https://www.petmd.com/dog/breeds/c_dg_great_dane
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
