Cat Breeds
Friendly, intelligent, and playful, Havana Brown cats are excellent all-around companions for families of every kind. They are fond of children and their capable of forming lifelong bonds with other pets. All of these wonderful traits have earned the Havana Brown the nickname "Chocolate Delight." These kitties are absolutely exquisite, with gorgeous chocolate coats and vibrant green eyes. No other cat looks quite like a Havana Brown.
If you are hoping for an attentive pet, you might want to consider a Havana! These cats break through feline stereotypes that mention aloof, independent personalities; in fact, The Havana Brown is a charmer, thriving on human interaction. These kitties are not happy without their favorite humans by their sides.
Havana Brown cats have no special nutritional needs. At the same time, it is vital to provide a high- quality diet to support well-being. If you are not feeding fresh food, ensure that real meat or fish is the number one ingredient in the commercial diet you choose.
Thanks to their short coats, Havana Brown cats require no intensive grooming. You can keep your cat looking their best by removing loose hair with a soft brush once or twice per week. You might also want to polish your cat's coat with a chamois or silk scarf after brushing. This will really bring out the shine!
You can help your cat stay healthy by teaching them to allow you to brush their teeth. Last but not least, you might consider keeping their nails trimmed. Your furniture and clothing will thank you.
Havana Brown cats are playful by nature. Not only are they fond of showing off their athletic prowess by performing acrobatic leaps and high jumps, they appreciate rousing games of fetch and might bring you a favorite toy to encourage you to join in the fun.
Treat your cat to plenty of toys and be sure that they have items to keep them engaged when you can't be there to play. Puzzle games, a tall cat tree, multiple scratching posts, and a window seat with a view of a birdfeeder are some of the things that will help keep your Havana Brown cat entertained so they are less likely to get into trouble while you're away.
Havana Brown cats are generally healthy, but those familiar with the breed have identified some issues that tend to occur at a higher than average rate.
Some Havana Brown kittens are born with hemophilia, which prevents blood from clotting properly. This isn’t terribly common however it does underscore the importance of choosing a reputable breeder.
Upper respiratory infections and urinary tract disorders can happen to any cat but some Havana’s seem to be a bit more prone to these problems than others. Your vet can help you navigate treatment options if your pet develops these or any other condition.
Even though solid brown cats are mentioned in the Tamra Maew Cat-Book Poems, an ancient manuscript that dates all the way back to 1350 c.e. when Siam was founded, the Havana Brown cat as we know it today is a fairly new breed.
Those original ancient brown cats weren't just beautiful companions, they were believed to offer protection from evil. As they were considered to be of such great value, a handful of self brown cats were brought to England from Siam at the end of the 19th century. They were described as being "Siamese, with coats of burnished chestnut, and greeny-blue eyes.”
Not all of these early imports were genetically identical to today's Havana Brown cats. Instead, they were probably Burmese, Tonkinese, and chocolate point Siamese. Some may have been the result of pairings between Siamese and domestic black or blue cats, resulting in cats that were similar to contemporary Havana Browns.
Records show that solid brown cats were shown in Europe during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. In 1888, a brown cat was awarded first prize at an English show, providing more evidence that the cat fanciers of the era appreciated these stunning chocolate colored cats as much as we do today.
By 1930 the British Siamese Cat Club band solid brown cats without blue eyes from competition, announcing that, “The club much regrets it is unable to encourage the breeding of any but blue-eyed Siamese.”
Luckily, this wasn't the end: Solid brown Siamese cats became popular again in the early 1950s. A few English cat breeders came together, studying chocolate gene inheritance and ultimately beginning a breeding program. They successfully paired Siamese cats with domestic shorthairs and a few Russian Blues to produce solid colored kittens the color of a Siamese cat's chocolate points. It's worth noting that these progeny were darker than Burmese kittens, which are a lighter sable color.
In 1952, a solid chocolate kitten named Elmtower Bronze Idol was produced through the pairing of a seal point Siamese and a solid black cat, both known to carry the chocolate gene. This kitten, nicknamed Bronze Idol, carried the foundation genetics for today's Havana Brown cats. The breed was accepted by the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy in 1958, but was named Chestnut Brown Foreign.
In 1959, the breed was renamed. No one is certain whether the Havana Brown cat is named after Havana cigars or Havana rabbits; both the cigars and the rabbits share the Havana Brown cat's rich coloring. In 1964, Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognized the Havana Brown and granted the breed championship status.
The Havana Brown cat gene pool was closed out crossing in 1974 and by the early 1990s, the breed waseven more difficult to find and breeders were forced to pair closely related cats with one another. The Winn Feline Foundation and Doctor Leslie Lyons, Ph.D. of the Veterinary Genetics Laboratory at University of California, Davis stepped in, helping Havana Brown breeders develop a successful outcross program. In 1998, CFA decided to allow outcrossing to seal point and chocolate point Siamese cats, select Oriental Shorthair cats, and domestic shorthair cats with solid blue and solid black coloring.
Kittens produced by mating registered Havana Brown cats with one of the allowable outcrosses could then be mated back to another Havana Brown. The resulting kittens could be registered and shown as Havana Browns so long as the breed standard was met.
All major cat registries recognize the Havana cat. The International Cat Association (TICA) recognizes the “Lilac” (dilute) color and calls the breed “Havana.” Other registries including the American Cat Fancier’s Association (ACFA) and Cat Fancier’s Association (CFA) call the breed “Havana Brown.”
The Havana Brown was nicknamed the “Swiss Mountain Cat” when it first arrived in England.
Even though the breed was developed with vocal Siamese cats playing prominent roles as founding members, Havana Brown cats are fairly quiet. They can be chatty, but their voices are far less demanding than those of their cousins.
Instead of meowing loudly to get their human's attention, Havana Brown cats have a tendency to reach out with their paws, poking or tapping to make their needs known.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Havana Brown, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Havana Brown or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Havana Brown, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Havana Brown cats cost between $500-$1,500.
Havana Brown cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Havana Brown cat might weigh between 6-10 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 12"-14" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Havana Brown is 12-15 years .
Havana Brown are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
--------------------------------------------------
A people-oriented breed, the Havana likes a lot of attention and will return it with great affection. These gentle cats are playful members of the family and always curious about everything that is happening in their home. Playful and smart, they can be a good friend to a child and get along well with other pets. Their striking mahogany coat requires very little grooming. Find out more about this breed and if the Havana is right for you and your family.
Playful
Havana cats are a medium-sized cat. Males range in size from 8 to 10 pounds. Females range in size from 6 to 8 pounds.
8-13+ years
Havana cats can be found in two colors: rich mahogany red-brown and pinkish grey or lilac – with matching whiskers.
Havana cats can be found in two colors: rich mahogany red-brown and pinkish grey or lilac – with matching whiskers.
Russian Blue

Havanas crave lots of attention and return it with great affection. Often compared to a puppy, Havanas love to follow their families around and involve themselves in everything they do. These gentle cats are playful and curious, yet enjoy family-time, sitting in a lap and chatting to their owner in a soft voice.
Overall, this is a medium-sized semi-foreign short hair cat. Males will be larger and heavier boned than females. The head stop and muzzle break are distinctive features of the breed. The ear set should give the animal a very alert look. Animal should stand high on the legs with a level back. Cats respond to a firm but gentle hand.
Havana’s are highly intelligent. Challenge their brain by teaching them tricks and providing puzzle toys that reward with kibble or treats when they learn to manipulate them and Interactive toys that will ensure your focus is on them.
They get along well with children and are well suited to any home with people who will love them and give them the attention and play they desire.
Want to connect with fellow cat lovers and those who love the same breed as you?TICA is a large resource made up of smaller regions and clubs around the world.Click here to find a club near you and contact information for your regional director and website.
Wherever you are, you’re in TICA’s world!®
The TICA website is the only place where you can find TICA member breeders who have signed the TICA Code of Ethics.
The Havana is a striking cat with a rich mahogany coat showcasing brilliantly green eyes. The short, smooth rich red-brown coat reveals the graceful lines of this elegant cat while the expressive green eyes glow with intelligence. Some believe it is named for its resemblance to the rich color of the Havana cigar, while others think the name came from Havana rabbit. These gentle cats are playful members of the family and always curious about everything that is happening in their home.
While brown cats were shown in England as early as the 1800s, a group of British cat fanciers in the early 1950s developed the rich brown cat we call the Havana. Baroness Miranda Von Ullman (Roofspringer), Mrs. Anne Hargreaves (Laurentide) and Mrs. E. Fisher (Praha) used chocolate point and seal point Siamese bred to solid black domestic shorthairs and a dash of Russian Blue to create the self-chocolate cats. The first registered Havana was Elmtower Bronze Idol whose parents were a seal point Siamese (Elmtower Tombee) and a black shorthair (Elmtower Susannah). Praha Gypka was another early chestnut brown cat – a male that came from a chocolate point Siamese bred to a black shorthair. The Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF) recognized the new breed in 1958 as the Chestnut Foreign Shorthair, the name was then changed to Havana in 1970.
The Havana is a curious, playful, people-oriented breed. They want lots of attention and return it with great affection. Expect a paw to reach out to engage your attention when you’ve been too busy to provide the attention the Havana thinks it deserves. That paw will also be used as the Havana investigates objects that engage its curiosity. This inquisitive, intelligent cat adapts to most situations and will come running to investigate a knock at the door or a crash in the kitchen. The richly colored Havana is an ideal companion if you’re looking for an affectionate, intelligent cat who wants be part of everything you do.
The elegant Havana comes in two colors: rich mahogany red-brown and pinkish grey or lilac – with matching whiskers. Both colors provide a stunning setting for the brilliant green oval eyes sparkling with intelligence and mischief.
The richly colored, glossy coat covers a medium-sized, semi-foreign body that is heavier than expected. The body has a firm, lithe muscular structure that ripples under the lustrous brown coat with a sense of powerful grace. Males tend to be larger than the females, weighing from 8 to 10 pounds where females weigh from 6 to 8 pounds.
Kittens are born brown or lilac but may have ghost tabby markings that will disappear when the cat reaches adulthood. These active cats retain their kittenish playfulness throughout life and will be cherished companions if you choose to share your home with one.
The Havana is a relatively healthy cat breed, but as with all cats, it is also recommended that their vaccinations and parasite treatments are kept to date and that regular veterinary appointments are scheduled.
The Havana is a relatively low maintenance cat. Their silky coat does not shed much, and only requires weekly brushing or combing.
As with all cats, keep their nails trimmed, ears cleaned and teeth brushed regularly with a vet-approved pet toothpaste and provide a nice tall scratching pole to help their natural scratching instinct.
Havana’s cats do not have any particular nutritional needs other than good, quality, dry kibble and canned food.
As with all cats, it is important to give your cat fresh, clean water daily. Fresh, clean water is best, so cats don’t hesitate to drink. If you worry about your cat drinking enough water each day, here’s a tip from cat behaviorists – place the water bowl at least three feet away from any food. Cats’ noses are sensitive and an overwhelming smell of food may cause them to drink less. If the quality of the local tap water is a concern, use bottled water or filter the water. Filtered drinking fountains can also be used in place of a water bowl.
Join the Cat Care Community!
Sign up now for exclusive monthly cat care tips delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your name and email below to stay updated with the best advice for your kitty companions!
"*" indicates required fields
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Magnetic Mcc, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 3, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Havana Brown cat is a unique and rare solid-brown cat breed with striking green eyes. Though the breed almost disappeared in the mid-century, deliberate breeding efforts from English breeders revived the Havana Brown in the 1950s, leading to a highly sought-after, rich brown cat. Along with their attractive looks, Havana Brown cats are prized for their sociable and playful personalities that adapt well to most owners and lifestyles.
If you’re considering a Havana Brown cat, here’s everything you need to know before bringing a kitten home.
Height:
12 – 18 inches
Weight:
6 – 10 pounds
Lifespan:
10 – 15 years
Colors:
Brown, mahogany
Suitable for:
Attentive owners, families, households with other pets
Temperament:
Alert, intelligent, friendly
The Havana Brown cat was developed in England in the 1950s from breeding Siamese and domestic black cats. Despite the reference to the Cuban city in the name, no one knows exactly how the breed became known as the Havana Brown. It could be because of the color, which is a rich brown like Havana tobacco, or because of the shared color of the Havana rabbit.

The Havana Brown cat is an extremely rare breed. It’s the only all-brown cat breed as a characteristic. There are a limited number of Havana Brown cat breeders, so you may have to search and add yourself to wait lists to get a Havana Brown kitten. The breeding pool is extremely small.
Avoid the temptation to get a kitten from a high-volume breeder. Kitten mills are common, just like puppy mills, and can contribute to health and behavioral problems. Always vet your potential breeders thoroughly to ensure you get a healthy, well-cared-for kitten from a responsible breeder.

Havana Brown cats are alert, people-oriented cats. They love human companionship, so they’re best for households with attentive owners. They like a lot of attention and interaction, though they’re not particularly hyper cats. Whatever excitement is happening in the house, they want to be involved. These are not cats you can leave for long periods to entertain themselves.
The Havana Brown cat is a great choice for families. These cats get along well with children and love being part of the family. However, they are a medium breed, so it’s important to supervise interactions and ensure that your children play appropriately with the cat. It’s easy for a cat to be injured with rough play.
The Havana Brown cat is famously social and will get along with other cats and dogs in your home. As with children, it’s crucial that you monitor interactions with larger dog breeds or breeds with a high prey drive that may chase your cat. If you have small animals, such as birds, reptiles, or rodents, it’s important to keep your cat separated. Even though they’re social cats, they still have natural hunting instincts and may stalk or pounce on small animals.

Like other cat breeds, Havana Browns have specific care needs. Here’s everything you need to know before bringing a Havana Brown cat home:
Havana Browns should have a high-quality diet that’s formulated for cats. Nutritional needs vary for kittens, adults, and senior cats, so choose a formula appropriate for your cat’s life stage. Havanas have a hearty appetite, so it’s important to monitor their food intake to avoid obesity. It’s easy for these cats to overeat and become overweight, which can contribute to health problems like diabetes and heart problems.
Havana Browns aren’t high-energy cats, but they do need some exercise and playtime between naps and lounging. Because of their curiosity, Havana Brown cats can become bored easily and may find ways to entertain themselves, including scratching at your furniture. Make sure to devote some time to play each day to keep your cat entertained and stimulated.
Havana Browns are intelligent and curious. They aim to please, so training a Havana Brown cat may be easier than some other cat breeds. Make sure to use positive reinforcement training to teach basic obedience rather than aversive methods that may instill fear in your cat. If you have patience, you may be able to train your cat to do tricks or more complex commands, such as walking on a leash and harness, playing fetch, or solving a puzzle toy.
The Havana has a low-shedding coat and minimal grooming needs. They only need weekly brushing with a soft brush to remove loose hair and prevent mats. Unlike some cat breeds, Havanas enjoy interactions and usually like the bonding experience of grooming. You should also trim your cat’s nails every few weeks or monthly to avoid broken nails. If your cat tolerates it, brush their teeth from a young age to prevent dental disease.
Any cat can have health problems, but the Havana Brown cat has no known health conditions. They may be at risk of conditions that affect a lot of cats, including obesity and dental disease, which you can prevent with regular vet exams and proper diet and grooming.
Note: the Havana Brown is still susceptible to common cat health conditions. Read about the 9 most common cat illnesses and diseases.
Though some people say there’s a difference between male and female cats, they’re mostly individuals. Male cats tend to be a little larger than females, but the difference is negligible. Spaying or neutering your cat can prevent an array of sex-related behavioral issues, such as roaming, aggression, and excess vocalization. Fixing your cat will also prevent a range of health conditions related to reproductive health.
In 19th-century England, solid-brown cats, which were known as self-brown cats, were being exhibited at British cat shows as Swiss Mountain Cats. They resembled Siamese cats, but they had green eyes instead of blue eyes. The Siamese Cat Club issued a proclamation about Siamese cats only having blue eyes, leading to a decline in this breed. In the 1950s, English breeders tried to revive the breed, leading to the Havana Brown.
The Havana Brown is unique in their totally brown coats. Havana Brown kittens and juveniles may have tabby stripes that show through their coats, but they typically fade as the cat reaches adulthood.
When breeders tried to produce self-brown kittens, they created Praha Gypka, a self-brown male kitten from a black shorthair and a chocolate-point Siamese. But accidental breeding between a solid black shorthair and a seal-point Siamese produced another self-brown male kitten, Elmtower Bronze Idol, the first Havana Brown registered in England.

From their curiosity and friendliness to their emerald-green eyes set against a mahogany coat, it’s no wonder that the Havana Brown cat is such a treasured cat breed. These cats are adaptable, low maintenance, and good-natured, making them an ideal fit for many cat owners.
Featured Image Credit: Magnetic Mcc, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Subscribe To This Site

History
The Havana cat breed (originally known as Havana Brown) was developed by a group
of British cat fanciers in the early 1950’s. Mrs. Anne Hargreaves, Baroness Miranda
Von Ullman and Mrs. E. Fisher bred seal point and chocolate point Siamese cats to
solid black domestic shorthairs as well as Russian Blues.
The first registered cat of this breed was Elmtower Bronze Idol whose parents were
a black shorthair and a seal point Siamese.
Havana Brown Cat
This new cat breed was recognized by the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy in 1958,
but was known as the Chestnut Foreign Shorthair. In 1970 the name was changed to
Havana.
Mrs. Elsie Quinn contacted Baroness Von Ullman in the mid 1950’s and imported the
first of this cat breed into the USA. The English cats are more oriental looking
whilst the American cats retained the original look with more angular profile lines.
In 1983 TICA accepted this cat breed for championship status and the name was changed
from Havana Brown to Havana.
Description
This beautiful shorthair cat comes in two colors – a pinkish grey or lilac and a
rich mahogany red-brown. The whiskers match in color. The eyes are a sparkling green
color which makes for a striking cat where looks are concerned. The ears are erect
and forward-tilted.
This cat breed is medium sized and has a semi-foreign body type. The body is muscular
and firm, making the cat graceful and powerful. Males weigh between 8-10 pounds
and females weigh between 6-8 pounds.
Grooming is easy and all that is required is a weekly brushing to remove loose hair.
You can run a chamois cloth over the coat to keep it looking shiny and lustrous.
Personality & Temperament
The Havana cat breed is very people-orientated and need lots of attention. They
are affectionate cats that like to interact with you and will investigate everything
that you do.
Consider a companion cat if you are going to be leaving your Havana alone for long
periods of time.
Interactive games that involve lots of activity and stimulation are a favorite pastime
of this cat breed.
Health Issues
The Havana cat breed is known to be a healthy and robust cat.
Return to Different
Cat Breeds from the Havana Cat Breed
Return to Home Page
Cat Breed Info is all about cats and people like you who love cats. That's why we would like to hear your stories - whether its about your princely Persian, your sultry Siamese or your mischievious Moggy, we want to hear it!
Click below to see contributions from other cat lovers to this page...
ally Found this lil girl at the pound and took her home because of her color I never seen this color in a cat before what kind of cat is she... she has very …
ally Not rated yetI found this lil girl at the pound and took her home because of her color. I have never seen this color in a cat before what kind of cat is she... she …
Click here to write your own.
--------------------------------------------------
The Havana Brown cat is a distinct and charming breed known for its rich, chocolate-brown coats and captivating green eyes. The Havana’s special head shape distinguishes it, as it is longer than it is wide.
The Havana Brown cat breed has an interesting history, with its roots dating back to the early 1950s in England. Siamese Cats and Domestic Black Cats were likely crossed to create Havana Brown cats. In summary, these cats have a rare appearance, loving personality, and unique history. If you’re looking for a unique and loving feline friend with a coat that looks like a piece of fine chocolate, the Havana Brown might be the perfect choice for you.
When considering a Havana Brown, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Havana Brown breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
How did a brown cat of Southeast Asian origin, believed to offer protection from evil, come to be known as a Swiss Mountain Cat, and how did it then adopt the name Havana Brown? The full answers to those questions are lost to history, but what appears to have happened is that solid-brown cats of Siamese type from Thailand were exhibited in Britain in the 1890s. Somehow during that time they acquired the moniker Swiss Mountain Cat.
In 1920, the Siamese Cat Club of Britain decided that brown cats without blue eyes were no longer desirable, and that was that. Breeders lost interest in them until the 1950s, when a group of British cat breeders set themselves the task of determining the genetic makeup of a self-brown (solid-colored) cat. They eventually produced a male chestnut-brown kitten, the result of a cross between a short-haired black cat and a chocolate-point Siamese. Russian Blues and Burmese may also have played a role in the development of what came to be known as the Havana Brown (whose only connection to Cuba is the supposed resemblance of his color to that of a fine Havana cigar).
But as it turned out, according to an article in the 1982 CFA Yearbook, the most successful and most often used breeding to produce a self-brown cat was between a black shorthair and a seal-point Siamese carrying the chocolate gene. The cats, which also went by the name Chestnut Foreign Shorthair—as many aliases as they had, they might well have been Cold War Cuban spies—were first exported to the United States in the 1950s.
It was then that the breed began to go two different ways. In Britain he is now considered to be a brown Oriental Shorthair. In the U.S., he is known as the Havana Brown and has a body and head type that distinguishes him from his British cousin. The Cat Fanciers Association recognized the breed in 1964.
The Havana Brown is a rare breed, so much so that his genetic diversity is threatened. It has been propped up by an outcrossing program begun in 1998, which permits the cats to be bred to unregistered black or blue domestic shorthairs or certain colors of Oriental Shorthairs or chocolate-point or seal-point Siamese. The kittens produced by those breedings can then be bred to Havana Browns. If those kittens have the Havana Brown coloring, they can be registered as Havana Browns.
The Havana is a medium-size cat weighing 6 to 10 pounds.
The rich tobacco-colored cat known as the Havana Brown may or may not be named for the addictive leaf, but the cats themselves are addictive to the people who come to know them. They are outgoing and friendly. Expect one to follow you around the house as you go about your day.
Like most cats with Siamese ancestry, the Havana can be demanding and talkative, but his voice is softer and his personality more subtle. He is smart and likes the challenge of teaser and puzzle toys. When he is through playing, the affectionate Havana will happily ensconce himself on your lap.
Havana Brown cats are generally a healthy breed, but like all cats, they can be prone to certain health issues. Responsible breeding practices can help reduce the likelihood of genetic health problems. Here are some health issues that Havana Brown cats may be predisposed to:
Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HCM): HCM is a common heart condition in cats, including Havana Browns. It involves the thickening of the heart muscles, which can affect the heart’s ability to function properly. Regular veterinary check-ups and echocardiograms can help detect and manage HCM.
Respiratory Infections: Havana Brown cats, like other breeds, can be susceptible to upper respiratory infections, such as feline herpesvirus (FHV) and feline calicivirus (FCV). These infections can cause symptoms like sneezing, coughing, and eye discharge.
Obesity: Obesity can be a concern for Havana Browns, as they enjoy eating and may become overweight if their diet is not controlled. Maintaining a healthy weight through proper portion control and exercise is essential.
Joint Problems: As they age, cats, including Havana Browns, can develop joint issues like arthritis. Providing a comfortable environment and monitoring their mobility as they get older is important.
The Havana Brown’s short, smooth coat is easy to care for with a quick weekly combing. Polishing it with a chamois will make it shine. A bath is rarely necessary.
Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection. Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene. It’s a good idea to keep a Havana Brown as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Havana Browns who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Havana Brown’s distinctive color extends even to his whiskers. He is the only cat with a breed standard that spells out whisker color: brown, of course, complementing the coat color. Looking out from all that minky-brown richness are vivid green eyes with an oval shape.
The Havana Brown is playful and smart and can be a good friend to a child who treats him nicely. He’s one of those cats who enjoys playing fetch and learning tricks, and his energy level means he won’t wear out before the child does. He is happy to live with other cats and cat-friendly dogs, too, thanks to his amiable disposition. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, please visit DogTime’s dog breed page!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
