The Ibizan Hound’s more than passing similarity to the Egyptian jackal-headed God, Anubis, is probably no coincidence, for this primitive breed is believed to have originated in ancient Egypt, before making its way to the Balearic Islands more than two thousand years ago. There, it earned a living for itself and its owners by hunting rabbits and hares over the rugged terrain, and it is still popularly used for this purpose. Although it uses all its senses when hunting, not least its acute sense of hearing, it is a typical sighthound in many ways, being a reserved, sometimes aloof character that is gentle and quietly affectionate with its owners. It is good with older children, and is generally sociable with other dogs. However, cats or any other smaller creature likely to run from the Ibizan Hound will be viewed as prey, and so the breed is suited only to all-dog households.
This athletic hound packs an incredible “spring”, and will readily escape from all but the most secure gardens, at which point it will pursue potential prey over great distances, so owners need to ensure their property is surrounded by a fence that is a minimum of 6 feet tall. Although the Ibizan Hound loves its comforts, and will readily adapt to apartment life, it needs plenty of exercise, and should be walked for around an hour a day. The breed can sport either a short- or wire-haired coat, but both are easy to care for, and professional grooming is not necessary. It is a healthy breed, and has a life expectancy of 11–14 years.
The Ibizan Hound is recognised as a primitive breed, one that long predates modern selective breeding. It is sometimes confused with the Pharaoh Hound, a breed to which it surrendered its original name in the twentieth century, and the two are likely to have a shared past. Depictions of lean hounds with large, pricked ears may be found on the tombs of the Pharaohs, and it is believed that the Ibizan Hound likely found its way to the Balearic Islands around the eighth century BC, probably travelling with Phoenician traders from the Middle East. Once it had arrived in its new home, it lived in relative isolation from other breeds, allowing it to retain its features and form over the following centuries.
With its forward-facing eyes, sensitive nose, and large, mobile ears, the Ibizan Hound is a natural hunter, and it proved a valuable asset to the islanders. Far from being the bustling holiday destinations of today, the Balearics of old were rugged and unforgiving, with little in the way of natural resources. The breed’s prowess in rabbit hunting ensured the survival of not just its owners, but also itself. The Ibizan Hound does not hunt alone, but usually in a small pack of mostly female dogs – males tend to become irritated by each other’s presence when working. It pursues its quarry with a rapidly wagging tail that alerts its comrades to the chase, whereupon the dogs will cooperate to surround the rabbit, allowing the hunter to make the kill. The breed is still used in this manner on its home isles, and is also a popular hunting dog in Catalonia and Provence, but it has never been kept in great numbers in northern Europe or the United States.
This is a lean and lithe, graceful dog. Its fine head is conical in shape, with a protruding occipital process at the back of the skull. The distance from this protuberance to the eyes is equal to that from the eyes to the end of the muzzle, which is slender and long. The Ibizan Hound has relatively small, slanting eyes that are a light amber colour, and characteristic large ears that are extremely mobile; although they are always stiff, they can be held in almost any direction.
The breed has tight-fitting, thin skin that accentuates every line of the body, revealing a light but muscular build that is completely free from fat. Its neck is a quarter of the length of the body, and the back is long and flat. The chest is narrow, deep, and long, and the abdomen is markedly tucked. The long, tapering tail is held in a sickle shape, its elevation indicating the dog’s degree of excitement.
The Ibizan Hound has a proud stance with a narrow base by virtue of its slender frame. Its limbs are remarkably upright and vertical, with little angulation; nonetheless, they are capable of propelling the dog with a nimble, light-footed trot that is deceptively fast. The coat can be smooth and short, rough, or long and silky, and is either red, white, or a combination of the two colours. Males are 66 to 72 cm (26–29 in) in height, and weigh 25 to 28 kg (55–62 lb). Females stand 60 to 67 cm (24–27 in) tall at the withers, and weigh between 23 and 26 kg (51–57 lb).
The breed typically has an aloof and reserved manner, especially around strangers, but is rarely shy or fearful. Although it is a somewhat independent dog, the Ibizan Hound is also affectionate, and enjoys physical contact with its family; however, it will decide when it has had enough attention to retire to a sofa or bed to relax alone.
It is an alert dog with the instinct to guard its territory, and can perform reasonably well as a watch dog, but is not aggressive or intimidating enough to serve as a more forceful deterrent. The predatory instinct that it has honed over the centuries means it is not a suitable companion for smaller pets, but it should mingle well with other good-natured dogs. It is also dependable with children, as long as they are considerate enough not to pull roughly on its sensitive skin.
Ibizan Hounds are clever and capable problem solvers, but hardly easy to train. Their independent nature means they must be convinced of the value in performing to their owners’ wishes, and positive reinforcement with praise, affection, and treats is essential to success in teaching new commands.
The breed is sensitive to harsh treatment, and will become withdrawn if criticised too sternly, so a positive and upbeat manner is also important
Health problems are relatively uncommon in the breed, though the following have been identified with reasonable frequency:
Ibizan Hounds are prone to hypersensitivity reactions to environmental allergens. While this most frequently causes signs of skin irritation and itching, ocular and nasal discharge and sneezing may also be seen.
The breed is prone to two distinct forms of cataract with one affecting young dogs, and the other developing in later life. Breeding adults should be examined by a certified veterinary ophthalmologist to detect early signs and to prevent perpetuating the problem.
A small proportion of Ibizan Hound pups are born deaf with signs becoming obvious within a few weeks, as affected pups are less responsive to their environment.
Seen in many young males, where one or both testicles fails to descend into its normal scrotal position before 8 weeks of age. Castration of affected individuals once they are old enough is essential to prevent testicular cancer developing in later life.
A congenital cause of partial or full blindness due to malformation of the layer of light-sensing cells at the back of the eye.
The Ibizan Hound is a working breed that has been developed to hunt for long hours in the field, and has the energy levels one would expect given such a background. While it can adapt to indoor living, it needs a minimum of one-hour of fairly vigorous exercise every day.
It should also ideally be given access to a garden, but owners should be prepared for it to dig and disturb flowerbeds, as its keen senses will lead it to pursue anything that wriggles or rustles beneath the surface. This breed has an incredible ability to jump, and will clear average-height fences with ease, so the boundary height should be a minimum of 6 feet to prevent any escape attempts being successful.
Regardless of coat type, the Ibizan Hound is easy to groom, needing just a weekly brush to prevent the hair knotting. Occasional baths might be required, but only when absolutely necessary in order not to strip oils from the skin and hair. Like many hounds, it may be prone to heavy build-up of tartar, and daily tooth brushing should be practiced to maintain good dental health.
Though it has no modern celebrities amongst its ranks, the Ibizan Hound’s ancestor accompanied Hannibal, himself an Ibizan, on his fabled journey across the Alps.
The breed is not commonly used for cross-breeding.
Copyright © 2016 - 2019 DogZone.com - Privacy | Authors | Contact
--------------------------------------------------
Collection of all the general dog breed info about Ibizan Hound so you can get to know the breed more.
Due to its popularity, inbreeding may occur. A new study shows that inbreeding contributes to the incidence of disease and health problems.
The Ibizan Hound ranks average in the intelligence ranking of dogs.
They are receptive to their owner's emotions and make wonderful family companions.
Top reasons for barking: protection, alarm, fear, boredom, attention-seeking, greeting, separation anxiety, compulsive barking.
Low  🔽
Between 200 and 400 PSI  ⏺
The Ibizan Hound, and many others, have a fearsome presence because they have significant jaw strength, so it is important not to anger the dog and have it around strangers until it is fully trained.
However, they are usually quite calm and good companions, they work well in families and are easy to care for.
In conclusion, while the Ibizan Hound bite force is certainly an interesting aspect of the breed, it is important not to let it overshadow the many other reasons why these dogs are so loved and respected. With proper training and socialization, an Ibizan Hound can be a loyal and protective companion for your family.
Do Ibizan Hound dogs need a lot of exercises?
If you notice any weight gain, consult your veterinarian and make a diet plan. Reduce unhealthy food and snacks, and measure the Ibizan Hound weight regularly.
Brushing the dog's coat is useful to reduce shedding. Ears and eyes should be cleaned regularly to avoid infections.
Don't skip the seasonal flea treatment too. Dog nail trimming and dog bath can be helpful sometimes.
Check the local pet store for dog grooming supplies and find the best dog shampoo to keep its coat healthy and give your dog a pleasant experience of a dog bath.
If you don't have the time, skill, or money to take care of your Ibizan Hound, search for a dog groomer or clipping service in your area and book an appointment.
Maybe you're lucky to have a dog boarding service that includes grooming or walk-in dog bath places nearby.
If you notice any change in your dog's drooling habit, you should contact a vet as soon as possible.
Medium  ⏺
Bathing your dog is beneficial to them in more ways than just one. It’s also a good time to look for unusual scratches, bumps, fleas, and other irregularities. When their hair is wet and flat against their body, these details are more visible.
Not really This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for service purposes.
This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for service purposes.
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for service purposes.
Not really This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Not really They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for detection purposes.
They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Not really This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
The Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
Not really Ibizan Hound breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Ibizan Hound breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Not really A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Ibizan Hound is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Not really In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
60-64 days
During this time the females start to attract males. You can notice by swelling vulva and bloody discharge.
The second part is the Estrus when the female is receptive for the male. It lasts for about 3 to 11 days.
The sign of the proestrus part is the soft and enlarged vulva. The discharge decreases and lightens in color.
The third part is the Diestrus. Normally, it occurs around day 14. In this period the female’s discharge changes for vivid red and coming to its end. The vulva returns to average, and she will no longer permit mating.
The fourth part called the Anestrus. The time frame between heat periods normally lasts about six months.
Once a year.
The first impression of the Ibiza Hound is of a tall, aristocratic, sleek dog who is rather aloof but those who get to know the breed soon learn that they are generous with their affection, sensible, polite, and even playful. They are well known for being able to jump up 6 feet in the air, and they can reach speeds up to 40 miles per hour. Ibizan Hounds are also packed animals so they fit in with families just fine.

The Ibizan Hound’s origins are said to extend back at least 5000 years, making it one of the world’s oldest pure-bred canines. In Egyptian art, these dogs were frequently depicted. Tracing back to 3100 B.C., a concave dish, called the Golenischeff plate, was found at Nagada in upper Egypt, on which three leashed hounds with erect ears and tall lean bodies were portrayed.
Moreover, drawing of these ancient hounds, so strikingly similar to the Ibizan Hound, have been found in hieroglyphs and in the tombs of pharaohs dating back to 2650 B.C. Even the head of Anubis resembles that of the Ibizan. However, as their name reflects, the Ibizan Hound hails from the Mediterranean isle of Ibiza where the breed was traditionally used to hunt rabbits.
The mystery begins when the recorded history ends. How did a breed that looked as though it stepped out of an Egyptian tomb end up being discovered thousands of years later and thousands of miles away?
According to experts, it is possible that Phoenician traders may have brought these canines to Ibiza and the surrounding islands as early as 800 B.C. They were kept and bred for their capacity to hunt small creatures using their senses of sight, scent, and even hearing.
The tough conditions allowed little space for sentimentality, and those who were not physically fit were not maintained or bred. This definitely contributed to the breed’s hardiness today. The breed is known as Ca Eibisenc in its homeland.

Over time, the Ibizan Hound became known on the European continent, first in Catalonia, Spain, where he was called Eivissencs, and in Provence, France, where he was called Charnique and was prized by poachers. However, his association with the clandestine activity of poaching eventually led him to be banned from France. In the 20th century, the Marquesa de Belgida of Barcelona, Spain, Doe Maria Dolores de Cotonera took a strong interest in the Ibizan Hound, which was then considered an indigenous Spanish breed.
She maintained a big kennel on Majorca, the largest of the Balearic Islands, where she bred high-quality Ibizan Hounds whom she promoted throughout the whole world. Furthermore, it was not until the 1950s that the breed was exported and began its new incarnation as a companion and show dog. The breed was introduced to the United States in 1956 by Colonel and Mrs. Consuelo Seone. Today, the Ibizan is a prized hunter, coursing dog, show dog, and companion animal all over the globe.

The Ibizan Hound was recognized by the American Kennel Club in 1979 and first appeared at the Westminster Kennel Club show in 1980. He remains a rare breed today. The Ibizan Hound ranks 138th among the 155 breeds and varieties recognized by the AKC. The breed also became recognized by the United Kennel Club in the same year.
--------------------------------------------------
The Ibizan Hound (Spanish: podenco ibicenco, Catalan: ca eivissenc) is a lean, agile dog of the hound family. There are two hair types of the breed: smooth and wire. The more commonly seen type is the smooth. Some consider there to be a third type, long, but the longhair is most likely a variation of the wire.
Ibizan Hounds are intelligent, active, and engaging by nature. They rank 53rd in Stanley Coren's book The Intelligence of Dogs, considered average working/obedience intelligence, but many Ibizan owners enjoy recounting a multitude of examples of their problem-solving abilities. They are true "clowns" of the dog world, delighting in entertaining their people with their antics. Though somewhat independent and stubborn at times, they do take well to training if positive methods are used, but they will balk at punitive training methods. They are generally quiet but will alarm bark if necessary, so they make good watch dogs. They are sensitive hounds, and very good around children and other dogs alike. They generally make good house dogs but are active and athletic, therefore need a lot of daily exercise. They do not make good kennel dogs. Ibizan hounds are sweet, but they are very stubborn and independent.
Ibizan Hounds are "escapologists": they are able to jump incredible heights from a standstill, so they need very tall fences. They also have been known to climb, and many can escape from crates and can open baby gates and even locks. They have a strong prey drive, therefore they cannot be trusted off leash unless in a safely enclosed area. Once off the leash, they might not come back for a long time. A hound that knows where its home is and the surrounding area will usually return unscathed.[1][citation needed]
The Ibizan Hound is typical of the hound group in that it rarely suffers from hereditary illness. Minor health concerns for the breed include seizures and allergies; very rarely, one will see axonal dystrophy, cataract, retinal dysplasia and deafness in the breed. Ibizan Hound owners should have their dogs' eyes tested by a veterinarian before breeding. CERF and BAER testing is recommended for the breed.  Ibizan Hounds are sensitive to barbiturate anesthesia, and typically live between 12 and 14 years.[2]
DNA analysis indicates that the breed was formed recently from other breeds.[3]
[4]
The Ibizan Hound is similar in function and type to several breeds, such as the Pharaoh Hound, the Cirneco dell'Etna, the Portuguese Podengo, and the Podenco Canario. The Ibizan Hound is the largest of these breeds, classified by the Fédération Cynologique Internationale as primitive types.
This breed originates in the island of Ibiza and has been traditionally used in the Catalan-speaking areas of Spain, and France where it was known under the name of le charnigue, to hunt rabbits and other small game. The Ibizan Hound is a fast dog that can hunt on all types of terrain, working by scent, sound and sight. Hunters run these dogs in mostly female packs, with perhaps a male or two, as the female is considered the better hunter.
Traditionally a farmer may have one dog and a very well off farmer two dogs to catch rabbits for food. However, in the last twenty years it is seen as a sport where between five and fifteen dogs can be seen in the chase of one rabbit.
The Ibizan Hound authority Miquel Rosselló has provided a detailed description of a working trial which characterises their typical hunting technique and action,[5] strikingly illustrated with action photos by Charles Camberoque[6] which demonstrate hunt behaviour and typical hunt terrain. 
While local hunters will at times use one dog or a brace, and frequently packs of six to eight or as many as fifteen, the working trial requires an evaluation of one or two braces. A brace is called a colla. The couples should be tested on at least two to five rabbits (not hares), without the use of any other hunting aid. An inspection and evaluation of the exterior, fitness, character and obedience of the dogs is recommended prior to the hunt. 
The trial is qualified as having 5 parts. The dogs should show: (1) careful tracking and scenting of the rabbit, without being distracted in the least, 0-30 points; (2) correct signalling of the game, patient stand, strong jump into the air, obedience 0-10 points; (3) chase, giving tongue, speed, sureness, anticipation 0-30 points; (4) putting the game to cover at close quarters, listening, waiting, obedience, correct attack 0-10 point; and (5) good catch, or correct indication of the game's location, retrieval, obedience 0-20 points.
Individual dogs are expected to show a great degree of discipline, obedience and co-operation. They should be extremely agile, have good speed and a powerful vertical jump from a stationary position in rough and often heavily covered ground. They should have excellent scent-tracking abilities, give tongue at the right time when approaching the game closely, and otherwise be silent so that they can locate the game by sound.
In the United States, the Ibizan Hound is frequently competed in lure coursing through the AKC and ASFA, and also competes in LGRA straight racing and NOTRA oval track racing.  Some parts of the country also use them for coursing live prey, generally jackrabbits.
The Ibizan Hound breed is recognized by the Fédération Cynologique Internationale, Continental Kennel Club, American Kennel Club, United Kennel Club, Kennel Club of Great Britain, Canadian Kennel Club, National Kennel Club, New Zealand Kennel Club, Australian National Kennel Council, America's Pet Registry, and American Canine Registry. It was fully recognized by the American Kennel Club in 1979.
According to journalist Norman Lewis, when an owner no longer wants to own one of these dogs (having too much of an appetite, for instance), it is considered very bad luck to kill the dog. Instead, they release the dog on the other side of the island, so that someone else might 'adopt' the animal.[7]
--------------------------------------------------
The Ibizan is a very striking looking dog.He is a narrowly built hound with long legs and large erect ears.He is built some what differently to other sight hound,having a shallow chest and with no great angulation front and rear.The colours of the Ibizan are chestnut which can be in varing shades and white and any combination of these two colours. There is also a lion colour which is quite rare to see now.The coat comes in smooth and wire.The wire coat can be up to 2 or 3 inches long and they have lots of facial wiskers. The eyes are  amber in colour and the nose is flesh colour. Dewclaws should be on front legs only,and must not be removed.The height of the Ibizan is 22 – 29 inches for dogs and bitchesThe Ibizan must not have any black on it at all.
The correct way to pronounce Ibizan is Ibithan.It is acknowledged that the Ibizan hound comes from the island of Ibiza situated of the coast of Spain in the Western Mediterranean Sea.The dog depicted in the ancient  carvings of the Egyptians resembles the Ibizan Hound more so than  the Pharoah Hound on  markings alone.The pied coats are often shown a feature the Pharoah does not have.Like all sight hound from that region the Ibizan is a very agile hunter, ,not as fast as the greyhound and probably not as agile as the Afghan,but none the less a great hunter with much stamina and is able to hunt all day at a steady pace.The Ibizan is also renowned for it’s ability to jump great heights,1.8 mtrs[6ft] with ease. A forager of  renown,having the ability to flush out prey from very dense undergrowth, mainly small game,rabbits etc.
The Ibizan Hound has been described as the Peter Pan of dogs. They have a wonderfull temperament,always ready for a game. They are a very busy breed,and get bored very easily,so if you are thinking of buying an Ibizan be ready for plenty of exercise. The Ibizan loves to be doing things with it’s owner,and if the owner decided to do obedience, agility ,tracking ,showing lure coursing or just plain walking, the dog would be in seventh heaven.Ibizans can be wary of people they don’t know,but once introduced they will treat that person as if it’s known them all their livesIt must always be remembered,the Ibizan is a sight hound,and every thing that has been taught to that dog will be completely forgotten if the dog is off lead and a rabbit etc is spotted, the deaf ears will suddenly appear and the chase will be on.
Very little is needed in the way of grooming.Once a week with a grooming glove. Nails trimmed when needed,and a bath when needed.The Ibizan is a very clean breed in as much he has a very short coat that does not hold dirt and mud ,they are also a bit cat like in that they groom themselves and after eating they usually like to wipe their face on something [usually you], and best of all they have no doggy smell.
The Ibizans in Australia do not have any health problems,and hopefully this will continue with thoughtful breeding.The one thing that should be remembered is, as with all hounds that do not carry much body fat, they can have problems with some anaesthetics and some chemicals, as in flea and tick washes.
Find Ibizan Hound BreedersorView Ibizan Hound Puppies for Sale | View Ibizan Hound Older Dogs for Sale
--------------------------------------------------
Menu
Bridge (Alisian FIelds Stirling Bridge One SC), a female, smooth Ibizan Hound, at 2 years old, lure coursing
Ih-BEEZ-an Hound
The Ibizan Hound is also called Podenco Ibicenco. The body is fine-boned and slender. The head is long and narrow with a long muzzle that tapers to a point, giving the appearance of a cone. It has a very small stop. The nose is a rosy flesh color. The teeth meet in a scissors bite. The small eyes are a clear amber to caramel in color. The erect ears are large and pointed. The neck is long, slender and slightly arched. The back is level and straight. The chest is long and deep. The front legs are straight. Dewclaws may be removed. There are three varieties of Ibizan: smooth-haired, longhaired and wirehaired. The most common is the smooth-haired and the longhaired is very rare. The wirehaired has a longer coat of rough hair that is softer textured than the other two varieties. Colors are white and red, white and tan, solid white or red or a tawny tan coat color with darker shading, called a lion color.
The Ibizan Hounds, sometimes called "Beezers" by their fanciers, are quiet, clean, playful and polite. Good with children, gentle, sensible and sensitive. Protective and somewhat independent, they will hold back watchfully with strangers. Once they decide the stranger means no harm, they will relax very quickly. Be careful with small pets such as rabbits, cats and rodents; the Ibizan Hound is bred to hunt these creatures.  Cats that are raised with the Ibizan Hound will fit in just fine as part of the "family pack," but it will chase and possibly kill a cat it does not know. As with all breeds, the Ibizan Hound should be well socialized with other dogs, other animals, adults and children. Beezers are pack animals by nature, so introducing a puppy to the household is easy. An Ibizan thinks its humans are its pack, so any addition (human visitor or new baby) must be introduced slowly. When introducing an adult dog, be sure to take both dogs together on a pack walk, making both dogs heel on the walk before bringing the new dog home. Ibizans are members of the family. They cannot be kept as kennel dogs. They love their humans, are as clean as a cat, and respect the rules of a household. This breed blushes when it gets excited, as does the Pharaoh Hound. Ibizans like to learn and do so very quickly. They are trainable, but tend to be willful if they sense their owners are meek or passive and get bored easily. Provided they have been properly trained, they can participate in many types of dog sports. These dogs are very sensitive to the voice of their handler and a friendly, calm, but assertive command will always achieve more than a harsh command. This breed tends to have large litters. As with all dogs, be sure you are always your dog’s pack leader to avoid any negative or unwanted behaviors. Proper human to canine communication is essential.
Height: 22 - 29 inches (56 - 74 cm)
    Weight: 42 - 55 pounds (19 - 25 kg)
The Ibizan Hound is hardy and strong, but can have allergic reactions to drugs, including insecticides and flea powders. Some lines seem to be prone to seizures. The Ibizan Hound has a genetic propensity for Axonal Dystrophy, nerve and muscle disease.
The Ibizan Hound will do okay in an apartment if it is sufficiently exercised. It is moderately active indoors and will do best with at least a large yard. The Ibizan Hound can jump very high from a complete standstill, enabling him to easily jump most fences. An incredibly fast dog, the Ibizan Hound can be extremely difficult to recapture. This breed is a sighthound, meaning it hunts by sight rather than scent. Ibizans have selective hearing and an independent nature. They will take off running and WILL NOT return until they feel like it. The strong chase instinct and lack of caution in traffic can lead to disaster. A large fenced area is best for regular exercise. Breed Club literature suggests at least 40x60 feet. The breed is quite sensitive to cold, as his coat is not very protective.
About 10-12 years.
About 6 to 12 puppies
There are three varieties of Ibizan: smooth-haired, longhaired, and wirehaired. None of these varieties requires much attention. The shine on the coat of the smooth-haired can be kept in good condition by occasionally running a rubber glove over it. The wirehaired does not need hand-plucking. All can be groomed by an occasional brushing. Check at frequent intervals that the ear passages are clean and keep the claws short. This breed is an average shedder.
The Ibizan Hound is very similar to the Pharaoh Hound, with the main difference being coat color and the Ibizan's larger size. Depictions of dogs that looked much like today's Ibizan Hound were found in ancient Egypt around 3400 BC. It is thought that sea traders brought these dogs to the island of Ibiza, along with other surrounding islands off the coast of Spain about 700-900 BC. The dogs were used to hunt rabbit, providing food for the islanders. The dogs also hunted for themselves as they were not fed by the humans. This fast, hunting Greyhound type is able to hunt in both daylight and night. They hunt by sight, hearing and smell, alone or in packs. When the prey is discovered, the Ibizan points and when it bolts, the dog's sighthound instincts come into play and the hound is full-flight in strong pursuit. When the prey is captured the dog can be trained to bring it back to the hunter like a retriever. The Ibizan Hound is often used in the sport of lure coursing. It was recognized by the AKC in 1978.
Southern, AKC Hound
Bridge (Alisian FIelds Stirling Bridge One SC), a female, smooth Ibizan Hound at 2 years old—"She's a show dog and a lure courser."
Bridge (Alisian Fields Stirling Bridge One SC), a female, smooth Ibizan Hound at 2 years old—"She's also a champion snuggler and professional couch hog. :)"
Bridge (Alisian Fields Stirling Bridge One SC), a female, smooth Ibizan Hound, at 2 years old, lure coursing
Bridge (Alisian Fields Stirling Bridge One SC), a female, smooth Ibizan Hound, at 2 years old, lure coursing
Photos courtesy of Rose Bednarski, Rose's Homepage
Photo courtesy of Rose Bednarski, Rose's Homepage
Wirehaired Ibizan Hound—Photo courtesy of WildWood Ibizan Hounds
Wirehaired Ibizan Hound—Photo courtesy of WildWood Ibizan Hounds
Wirehaired Ibizan Hound looking up a tree—Photo courtesy of WildWood Ibizan Hounds
"This little female Ibizan Hound likes to cuddle with the kids in bed."
"This is a small adult Ibizan female that stayed with us for a little while. She loved to cuddle in bed with the kids! She usually tucked her nose under her tail when she slept. She knew she was not allowed to get on the couch, but would reason in her mind that a pillow on the couch or folded laundry on the couch was fine to curl up on. We laughed at her unashamed face as she nestled in a tight ball only touching the pillow or laundry. Ibizans are very expressive and fun to 'talk' to. Their ears speak what they are thinking similar to how a horse's would. I wanted to share this to spread how sweet the Ibizan breed is."
--------------------------------------------------
