Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
Irish Setters are distinctly elegant looking Gundogs that over the years have consistently been popular in the show ring a home environment or as a working dog. Originally bred as working gundogs they must be among the most glamorous of dogs which means more often than not they are the focus of lots of attention from fans of the breed and other people too thanks to the gorgeously rich chestnut-red coats and their very kind natures.
These setters are among the oldest of their type around and were first bred in Ireland where they made their mark as being excellent gundogs although it should be said the Irish Setter is known to have a bit of a mischievous streak in them.
Being one of the oldest of the setter breeds the Irish Setter was around before English Setters or Gordon Setters appeared on the scene. They originate from Ireland where they were developed by crossing old-type spaniels setting spaniels and Scottish Setters. They were originally bred as hunting dogs and were to become excellent scent dogs. However the Irish Setters of yesterday were much like the dogs we know today and they boasted a mischievous side to their nature which often got the better of them when they were being put their paces and working.
The earliest record of a "setting dog" or "Setter" is in Caius's De Canibus Britannicus a publication that went to print in 1570 although the dogs described bear very little resemblance to the setters we see today being more like "spaniels" in looks. There are other references to Setters that appeared in 1616 which described them as being "other sorts of land spaniels that were known as Setters". By the 18th Century setters were fast becoming a popular dog and breeders began keeping records of their breeding practices. Breed enthusiasts included prominent families namely the de Freynes of French Park and Lord Dillon as well as the Marquis of Waterford.
In 1882 the first Irish Red Setter Club was established all thanks to the efforts of The Earl of Enniskellen who worked hard to breed only the best quality dogs. It was the Earl who developed the breed's striking solid red coat. With this said many dogs that were exhibited during this time still boasted white or black markings in their coats which was a throw-back to traits seen in the Gordon Red and White Setters.
The Irish Setter has always enjoyed a tremendous amount of success in the show ring thanks to their wonderful looks and hyper personalities and these charming dogs continued to do well until the breed was almost lost the 1940s thanks to the onset of an eye disease known as Progressive Retinal Atrophy which today is better known as PRA. Fortunately with the advancement in veterinary medicine it is now possible to have all Irish Setters DNA tested for this eye disorder and any dogs with the condition are never used in a breeding programme. This has helped increase breed numbers with fewer cases of dogs suffering from PRA over recent years.
Height at the withers: Males 58 - 67 cm Females 54 - 62 cm
Average weight: Males 27 - 32 kg Females 24 - 29 kg
Their eyes are almond shaped and dark hazel right through to dark brown in colour which are set level and which show a kind intelligent expression these dogs are known to possess. Ears are fine in texture and moderate in size being set low and well back. They hang neatly close to a dog’s head showing a neat fold. Irish Setters have a strong jaw boasting a perfect scissor bite where their upper teeth neatly overlap their lower ones.
They have moderately long well-muscled necks which dogs hold slightly arched adding to their proud looks. Shoulders are deep and sloping with fine points and front legs are sinewy and straight showing a lot of bone. They have deep chests which are quite narrow viewed from the front with well sprung ribs carried well back. Loins are muscular and slightly arched again adding a graceful dimension to the overall look of an Irish Setter. Their topline gently slopes away from the wither. Hindquarters are powerful and broad with dogs boasting strong back legs. Their feet are small firm with strong closed and arched toes. Tails are moderately long and set just below the level of a dog’s back. It is thicker at the root but tapers to the tip and dogs carry it level to their backs or just a tad below.
When an Irish Setter moves they do so with a free-flowing action showing a lot of drive from behind. They have a true action when seen from behind or from the front. When seen in profile Irish Setters are perfectly coordinated.
The Kennel Club frowns on any exaggerations or departures from the breed standard and would judge the faults on how much they affect a dog's overall health and wellbeing as well as their ability to perform.
Males should have both testicles fully descended into their scrotums and it is worth noting that a dog can be a little lighter or heavier as well as slightly taller or shorter than set out in the Kennel Club breed standard which is given as a guideline only.
Irish Setters were originally bred to work as gundogs and although extremely good at the job they were bred to do they had a mischievous side to their natures which often got the better of them. However today these extremely attractive setters are known to be one of the most genuine dogs around boasting an affectionate friendly nature. They love nothing more than to be in a family environment and will join in all the fun and games that typically go on in a household.
They are quite excitable dogs by nature and always exhibit a fun-loving zest for life. They are a great choice for first time owners because they are easy to train all thanks to their desire to please. However because of the "naughty" side to their nature it takes time and patience to train an Irish Setter and their education needs to start early and be consistent throughout a dog's life for them to be truly happy relaxed and well-rounded dogs.
Irish Setters are high energy dogs and therefore owners must be able to give them the time these dogs need to be truly happy well-rounded dogs. This means lots of exercise and the right amount of mental stimulation to prevent boredom from setting in. A bored Irish Setter can get into all sorts of trouble especially when they find new things to entertain and amuse themselves around the home which typically involves destroying anything they find.
These dogs thrive on being around people and do not do particularly well when they are left to their own devices for long periods of time. They are also known to be quite accident prone all thanks to their quick turn of speed and the fact they can be very excitable at times. With this said when given enough exercise and lots of mental stimulation an Irish Setter forms a very strong bond with their owners but they do need to know their place in the pack. However as previously mentioned their training must start early and it needs to be consistent with a lot of emphasis being put on training an Irish Setter to respond to a "recall" command.
They are also known to like the sound of their own voices and have a reputation of being barkers when the mood takes them. The only way to avoid this from happening is to make sure an Irish Setter is kept busy and given heaps of mental stimulation. When talking about these dogs the saying a "tired dog is a good dog" is never truer. With this said these charming attractive dogs really do remain puppies at heart throughout their lives which should be taken into account when they are being put through their paces.
Although Irish Setters are a good choice as family pets they are not the best choice for families with young children or toddlers. The reason being that these dogs are often quite boisterous when they play which means they could end up knocking a toddler over and scaring them. Any interaction between children and an Irish Setter should always be supervised by an adult to ensure things stay nice and calm.
Irish Setters are very social by nature and even though they have working and hunting dogs in their lineage they do not have a very high prey drive. However this is not to say that a dog would not give chase to a smaller animal when the mood takes them and this includes squirrels and the cat from next door whenever they get the chance.
Irish Setters have a very playful side to their natures and love to entertain and be entertained. Younger dogs can be boisterous and accident prone which means teaching them to play outside rather in the house to avoid breakages bearing in mind that they mature very slowly.
Irish Setters are better suited to people who like to spend as much time in the great outdoors with a canine companion at their side. They do not do well living in an apartment because they benefit from being able to roam around a secure back garden whenever they can.
Although Irish Setters form strong ties with their families they don't mind being left on their own providing that it is never for too long. Puppies can be taught that being on their own is not something that should stress them out and they generally accept it when nobody is around although this should be done gradually when Irish Setters are still young.
Irish Setters are known to be "barkers" and will voice their opinion about something when the mood takes them. With this said any dog that's left on their own for too long might start barking incessantly as a way of showing how unhappy they are at the situation. Puppies should be gently taught not to bark for the sake of it but this must be done gently because Irish Setters are so sensitive by nature.
Most Irish Setters love swimming and will take to the water whenever they can more especially when the weather is hot. However if anyone who owns a dog that does not like water should never force them to go in because it would just end up scaring them. With this said care should always be taken when walking an Irish Setter off the lead anywhere near more dangerous watercourses just in case a dog decides to leap in and then needs rescuing because they cannot get out of the water on their own. It is also very important to wipe a dog's ears dry to avoid any infections flaring up.
Irish Setters do not make good watchdogs although they are always very alert to what goes on around them and would be quick to alert an owner when something they don't like is going on. However rarely would an Irish Setter show any sort of aggressive behaviour when doing so preferring to keep their distance and bark. In short they are just too friendly to be thought of as “good watchdogs”.
An Irish Setter's training needs to start as early as possible with a lot of emphasis being placed on the "recall" command as previously mentioned. They are not hard to train but their mischievous nature paired to a strong instinct to hunt can prove too much for them at times. However with a lot of patience and gentle persuasion the Irish Setter can be trained and some dogs compete and even excel when they take part in obedience trials.
The thing to bear in mind is that Irish Setters are sensitive dogs by nature and therefore they do not respond well to any sort of harsh training or correction. The breed is also slow to mature physically and mentally which must be taken into account when training them. Pushing a dog too hard will not achieve good results. However these setters are also known to be independent dogs and at times they can be a little stubborn and hardheaded.
Irish Setter puppies are very cute and they very sensitive too. It is all too easy to spoil puppies when they first arrive in their new homes but owners should always start out as they mean to go on which means setting ground rules and boundaries so that a puppy learns what is acceptable behaviour and what is not. All dogs like to know what an owner expects of them and they should be taught their place in the pack and who is the alpha dog in a household. The first commands an Irish Setter should be taught are as follows:
Irish Setters are known to get on well with children and will play nicely with them. They seem to have an affinity with small people but because of their size they could well knock a toddler over by accident which means any interaction between children and an Irish Setter should be supervised by an adult to make sure playtime does not get too boisterous.
Irish Setters generally get on well with dogs but when it comes to cats and other small animals they need to be introduced to them early in their lives and then grow up with them. The reason being their instinct might get the better of them when they encounter any small animals and cats. Care should be taken when an Irish Setter meets any small animals or pets they don’t already know.
The average life expectancy of an Irish Setter is between 10 and 15 years when properly cared for and fed an appropriate good quality diet to suit their ages.
Although the Irish Setter is thought of as a healthy dog and one that boasts a longer life span than other dogs of their size there are certain hereditary and acquired disorders that owners need to know about if planning to share a home with one of these extremely handsome dogs. The health disorders that seem to affect the breed the most are as follows:
Irish Setters puppies would have been given their initial vaccinations before being sold but it is up to their new owners to make sure they have their follow-up shots in a timely manner with the vaccination schedule for puppies being as follows:
There has been a lot of discussion about the need for dogs to have boosters. As such it's best to talk to a vet before making a final decision on whether a dog should continue to have annual vaccinations which are known as boosters.
A lot of vets these days recommend waiting until dogs are slightly older before spaying and neutering them which means they are more mature before undergoing the procedures. As such they advise neutering males and spaying females when they are between the ages of 6 to 9 months old and sometimes even when a dog is 12 months old.
Other vets recommend spaying and neutering dogs when they are 6 months old but never any earlier unless for medical reasons. With this said many breeds are different and it is always advisable to discuss things with a vet and then follow their advice on when a dog should be spayed or neutered.
Some Irish Setters gain weight after they have been spayed or neutered and it's important to keep an eye on a dog's waistline just in case they do. If a dog starts to put on weight it's important to adjust their daily calorie intake and to up the amount of exercise they are given. Older dogs too are more prone to gaining weight and again it's essential they be fed and exercised accordingly because obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years. The reason being that it puts a lot of extra strain on a dog's internal organs including the heart which could prove fatal.
Irish Setters are prone to suffering from allergies and it's important for a dog to see a vet sooner rather than later if one flares up bearing in mind that some dogs suffer from Wheat sensitive enteropathy. Allergies can be notoriously hard to clear up and finding the triggers can be challenging. With this said a vet would be able to make a dog with an allergy more comfortable while they try to find out the triggers which could include the following:
All responsible Irish Setter breeders would ensure that their stud dogs are tested for known hereditary and congenital health issues known to affect the breed by using the following schemes:
The Kennel Club only registers Irish Setters that have been tested for CLAD and proven "clear" which applies to both parent dogs of puppies too.
The Kennel Club no longer accepts the registration of Irish Setters that are the offspring of parents that are CLAD carriers that have been mated to "clear" or to "hereditarily clear" parent dogs. Any breeder who would like to register puppies from carriers born after 1 January 2008 would need to get special permission before a mating takes place and the Kennel Club would deal with each case individually.
The Kennel Club will only accept registration of Irish Setters that have tested "clear" of PRA-rcd 1 - progressive retinal atrophy or where both parent dogs have proven clear of PRA which came into effect on 1st January 2010.
It is mandatory for all Kennel Club Assured Breeders to use the following tests on their dogs and all other breeders are strongly advised to follow suit:
The Kennel Club also strongly recommends that all breeders use the following test on their dogs:
As with any other breed Irish Setters need to be groomed on a regular basis to make sure their coats and skin are kept in tip-top condition. They also need to be given regular daily exercise to ensure they remain fit and healthy. On top of this they need to be fed good quality food that meets all their nutritional needs throughout their lives.
It's best to pick a puppy up when people are going to be around for the first week or so which is the time needed for a puppy to settle in. Puppy-proofing the home and garden means putting away any tools and other implements that a boisterous puppy might injure themselves on. Electric wires and cables must be put out of their reach because puppies love chewing on things. Toxic plants should be removed from flowerbeds and the home too.
Puppies need to sleep a lot to grow and develop as they should which means setting up a quiet area that's not too out of the way means they can retreat to it when they want to nap and it's important not to disturb them when they are sleeping. It's also a good idea to keep "playtime" nice and calm inside the house and to have a more active "playtime" outside in the garden which means puppies quickly learn to be less boisterous when they are inside.
The documentation a breeder provides for a puppy must have all the details of their worming date and the product used as well as the information relating to their microchip. It is essential for puppies to be wormed again keeping to a schedule which is as follows:
There are certain items that new owners need to already have in the home prior to bringing a new puppy home. It's often a good idea to restrict how much space a puppy plays in more especially when you can't keep an eye on what they get up to bearing in mind that puppies are often quite boisterous which means investing in puppy gates or a large enough playpen that allows a puppy the room to express themselves while keeping them safe too. The items needed are therefore as follows:
All puppies are sensitive to noise including Irish Setter puppies. It's important to keep the noise levels down when a new puppy arrives in the home. TVs and music should not be played too loud which could end up stressing a small puppy out.
As previously mentioned Irish Setter puppies would have been given their first vaccinations by the breeders but they must have their follow up shots which is up to their new owners to organise. The vaccination schedule for puppies is as follows:
When it comes to boosters it's best to discuss these with a vet because there is a lot of debate about whether a dog really needs them after a certain time. However if a dog ever needed to go into kennels their vaccinations would need to be
Older Irish Setters need lots of special care because as they reach their golden years they are more at risk of developing certain health concerns. Physically a dog's muzzle may start to go grey but there will be other noticeable changes too which includes the following:
Older dogs change mentally too which means their response time tends to be slower as such they develop the following:
Living with an Irish Setter in their golden years means taking on a few more responsibilities but these are easily managed and should include taking a look at their diet the amount of exercise they are given how often their dog beds need changing and keeping an eye on the condition of their teeth.
Older Irish Setters need to be fed a good quality diet that meets their needs at this stage of their lives all the while keeping a close eye on a dog's weight. A rough feeding guide for older dogs is as follows bearing in mind they should be fed highly digestible food that does not contain any additives:
Older Irish Setters don't need to be given the same amount of daily exercise as a younger dog but they still need the right amount of physical activity to maintain muscle tone and to prevent a dog from putting on too much weight. All dogs need access to fresh clean water and this is especially true of older dogs when they reach their golden years because they are more at risk of developing kidney disorders.
One of the most striking features about an Irish Setter is their gleaming long chestnut coat. Dogs boasts lots of feathering on their ears chests backs of their legs abdomens and tails which in short means they are high maintenance when it comes to keeping their coats looking good and in top condition.
Their silky featherings tend to knot up and get tangled if dogs are not regularly and frequently brushed. When dogs come back from a walk their coats and more especially their feathers need to be towel dried before being gently brushed.
It's also important to regularly check an Irish Setters ears to make sure there are no foreign objects like brambles or thorns in them. It's also essential for their ears to be kept as dry as possible because they are prone to suffer from ear infections. If too much moisture builds up in a dog's ear canal it provides the perfect environment for a yeast infection to take hold. This type of infection is known to be hard to clear up.
It's also a good idea to take an Irish Setter along to a professional groomer especially if a dog boasts longer than usual feathering. An expert groomer would be able to thin them out so they are more manageable and they would be able to do this without changing the overall classic look that makes the Irish Setter stand out in a crowd.
Irish Setters as previously mentioned are high energy dogs and therefore they need to be given a heap of daily exercise. They like to be busy which means a minimum of 2 hours’ vigorous daily exercise with lots of mental stimulation included in their day. If not given the right amount of exercise and mental stimulation an Irish Setter would soon get bored and this could lead to them being unruly and wilful which makes them harder to manage and handle.
If you get an Irish Setter puppy from a breeder they would give you a feeding schedule and it's important to stick to the same routine feeding the same puppy food to avoid any tummy upsets. You can change a puppy's diet but this needs to be done very gradually always making sure they don't develop any digestive upsets and if they do it's best to put them back on their original diet and to discuss things with the vet before attempting to change it again.
Older dogs are not known to be fussy or finicky eaters but this does not mean you can feed them a lower quality diet. It's best to feed a mature dog twice a day once in the morning and then again in the evening making sure it's good quality food that meets all their nutritional requirements. It's also important that dogs be given the right amount of exercise so they burn off any excess calories or they might gain too much weight which can lead to all sorts of health issues. Obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years so it's important to keep an eye on their waistline from the word go.
Irish Setters are susceptible to bloat which means they should not be fed just one large meal a day but preferably 2 small ones. They should not be fed just before they go out for a walk or just when they come back from one either because this puts them more at risk of developing bloat.
Puppies need to be fed a highly nutritious good quality diet for them to develop and grow as they should. As a rough guide an Irish Setter puppy can be fed the following amounts every day making sure their meals are evenly spread out throughout the day and it's best to feed them 3 or 4 times a day:
Once a puppy is 15 months old they can be fed adult dog food.
Once fully mature an adult Irish Setter must be fed a good quality diet to ensure their continued good health. As a rough guide an adult Irish Setter can be fed the following amounts every day:
If you are looking to buy an Irish Setter you would need to pay anything from £550 to over £600 for a well-bred pedigree puppy. The cost of insuring a 3-year-old Irish Setter in northern England would be £23.29 a month for basic cover but for a lifetime policy this would set you back £40.54 a month (quote as of November 2017). When insurance companies calculate a pet's premium they factor in several things which includes where you live in the UK and a dog's age and whether they have been neutered or spayed.
When it comes to food costs you need to buy the best quality food whether wet or dry to feed your dog throughout their lives making sure it suits the different stages of their lives. This would set you back between £50 - £60 a month. On top of this you would need to factor in veterinary costs if you want to share your home with an Irish Setter and this includes their initial vaccinations their annual boosters the cost of neutering or spaying your dog when the time is right and then their yearly health checks all of which quickly adds up to over a £1000 a year.
As a rough guide the average cost to keep and care for an Irish Setter would be between £80 to £110 a month depending on the level of insurance cover you opt to buy for your dog but this does not include the initial cost of buying a well-bred healthy Kennel Club registered pedigree Irish Setter puppy.
When visiting and buying any puppy or dog there are many important things to consider and questions to ask of the breeder/seller. You can read our generic puppy/dog advice here which includes making sure you see the puppy with its mother and to verify that the dog has been wormed and microchipped.
Irish Setters are an extremely popular breed both in the UK and elsewhere in the world which means that well-bred puppies command a lot of money. As such with Irish Setters there is specific advice questions and protocols to follow when buying a puppy which are as follows:
--------------------------------------------------
Irish Setters thrive on human interaction and require regular exercise to expend their abundant energy. To that end, this breed excels in various dog sports and activities, and their trainability makes them suitable for obedience training. Their exuberant nature and playful demeanor may require consistent training and socialization. This alluring dog breed is known for its beauty, spirited personality, and unwavering loyalty, making it an excellent choice for families and individuals seeking an active and affectionate companion.
When considering an Irish Setter, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a dog in need. However, if you decide to purchase an Irish Setter puppy, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their dogs. Reputable Irish Setter breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their dogs, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the puppies. This active approach ensures you bring home a healthy and happy pup while discouraging unethical breeding practices.

Looking for the best dog for your apartment? Contrary to popular belief, the suitability of dogs who adapt well to apartment living goes beyond its size. Apartment dwellers have a myriad of dog breeds to choose from as potential companions, with various factors to consider. Some large breeds can adapt well to apartment living and have lower activity levels. Others may require more space and possess higher energy levels. On the other hand, certain small dog breeds with abundant energy can still find contentment with indoor playtime or brisk walks.


However, when selecting a dog that adapts well to apartments, it is essential to prioritize your neighbors. Opting for a pet that doesn’t excessively bark and behaves politely when encountering others in shared spaces is crucial. In apartment settings, it’s worth noting that numerous small dogs may exhibit a propensity for high energy and frequent barking. This can make them less suitable for apartment living. Rather than size alone, you’ll want to think about breeds who are quiet, low-energy, and sociable towards other residents.




Regardless of your pup’s inherent suitability to apartment living, you will want to invest in additional training to help them be their best selves. Training dogs not inherently suited to apartment living requires extra patience and consistency. Start by establishing clear boundaries and rules within your apartment to create a structured routine for your dog. Focus on basic obedience commands such as “sit”, “stay”, “come”, and “leave it”. Barking-related training commands including “hush” or “quiet” are also crucial. This training is essential for managing your dog’s behavior both indoors and outdoors.


Since space may be limited, prioritize leash training to ensure your dog walks calmly and obediently, especially in communal areas. Crate training can also help your dog feel safe and secure while you’re away from your apartment. This may help your pup avoid anxiety, which could lead to barking habits.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

When considering adding a dog to your home, it’s important to acknowledge that some dog breeds may present less of a challenge in terms of training and temperament. These dogs tend to be more adaptable, responsive to training, and resilient, readily overcoming any training hiccups or inconsistencies. As one might expect, these breeds may be good for novice dog owners.


Conversely, certain dogs may pose greater difficulties, particularly for first-time owners. Factors such as heightened sensitivity, independence, energy levels, or assertiveness can contribute to a more demanding ownership experience. Novice dog owners should assess their level of experience and comfort when selecting a new pet, ensuring compatibility with their lifestyle and capabilities for a mutually rewarding relationship.






For first-time or novice dog owners, pet ownership can be both exciting and daunting. As a bit of advice, research breeds thoroughly before bringing a dog home. Each breed has their unique traits, energy levels, and care requirements. Consider factors such as size, exercise needs, grooming demands, and temperament to find a breed that aligns with your lifestyle and preferences.


Prioritizing training and socialization at an early age is essential. You may want a breed who is more easy to train or perhaps possesses a lower energy level. Establishing clear boundaries and expectations early on lays the foundation for a well-behaved and well-adjusted dog. Basic obedience training such as teaching commands like sit, stay, and come, is crucial for effective communication and building a strong bond with your new best friend. Additionally, exposing your dog to various environments, people, and other animals helps prevent behavioral issues and promotes confidence and adaptability. Consistent care, patience, and love are key ingredients for a fulfilling and rewarding relationship with your dog.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Sensitivity levels in dogs vary widely among breeds and individuals. This trait can be determined by how a dog responds to their environment. While some dogs remain unfazed by stern reprimands or surrounding stimuli, others are more sensitive. Even the slightest disapproving glance or the sound of a passing car can affect a sensitive dog. Dogs with a low sensitivity level, also known as “easygoing,” “tolerant,” “resilient,” or “thick-skinned,” are better equipped to handle a bustling household, assertive owners, and unpredictable routines. If you have young children, frequently host social gatherings, engage in noisy activities like playing in a band, or live a busy, unpredictable life, a low sensitivity level dog may be the ideal choice for you.


Highly sensitive dogs are wired differently, with research indicating that their brains process sensory input more deeply. Evolutionarily speaking, scientists theorize high sensitivity levels could aid in survival by functioning as an early warning system, alerting the pack imminent danger. Sensitivity in dogs also includes how they interact with humans and other animals. Some dogs are naturally more sensitive, quickly picking up on subtle cues and changes in their surroundings. Others are more resilient and are able to brush off minor disturbances. Factors such as genetics, early socialization, and life experiences can all contribute to a dog’s sensitivity levels. Highly sensitive dogs may react strongly to loud noises, sudden movements, or changes in routine, while less sensitive dogs may remain calm and composed in similar situations. Being “highly-sensitive” doesn’t always only mean “highly anxious”. Highly-sensitive dogs may also be more empathetic, more affectionate, or serve as better guardians.









Helping highly sensitive dogs involves creating a calm environment, establishing predictable routines, and using positive reinforcement training techniques. Gradually expose them to new experiences while providing mental stimulation and regular exercise to reduce anxiety and boredom. Monitor their diet and health, offering emotional support and reassurance to help them feel secure and valued.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds bond very closely with their family and are more prone to worry or even panic when left alone by their owner. An anxious dog can be very destructive–barking, whining, chewing, and otherwise causing mayhem. These breeds do best when a family member is home during the day or if you can take the dog to work. On the other hand, some breeds are instinctually more independent and easily tolerates being alone.


It’s essential to remember that individual dogs’ tolerance for being alone can vary greatly, depending on factors such as age, temperament, and training. Providing appropriate mental stimulation, toys, and a comfortable environment can help alleviate any potential distress when leaving these breeds alone.









When leaving your dog home alone, it’s essential to create a calm and comfortable environment for them. Even if your dog tolerates being alone, always make sure they have access to their favorite toys, bedding, and water. Consider leaving on soothing background noise, such as calming music or a white noise machine, to help drown out any outside sounds and provide a sense of security.


Before leaving, give your pup an energetic play session or walk to tire them out and alleviate any pent-up energy. Avoid making a big fuss when you leave or return to prevent reinforcing separation anxiety. Additionally, consider providing a special treat or puzzle toy to keep your dog occupied while you’re away, helping to distract them and make their alone time more enjoyable. You may also want to gradually increase the duration of your absences over time.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Several dog breeds are naturally equipped to tolerate cold weather and climates, thanks to their thick coats, sturdy builds, and unique adaptations. Some breeds from snowy climates and mountainous regions may immediately come to mind, like the Siberian Husky, Alaskan Malamute, and Bernese Mountain Dog. Renowned for their cold tolerance and ability to excel in snowy environments, these cold-weather breeds not only tolerate freezing temperatures but may be happiest in the chill. Thanks to dense double coats that provide excellent insulation against the cold, they have no trouble adapting when the temperatures drop.


Additionally, these dogs may have a higher body fat percentage have a built-in layer of insulation that helps retain body heat in cold weather. Physical attributes also play a role in cold tolerance, enabling dogs to navigate snowy or icy terrain with ease. Certain breeds may have specialized adaptations, such as furry feet for traction on slippery surfaces or water-resistant coats for protection against moisture and wind chill. Moreover, a dog’s natural instincts, such as seeking shelter or burrowing in the snow for warmth, can further enhance their ability to tolerate cold weather.










Click here for more information on this characteristic

Unlike cold-weather breeds and brachycephalic dogs, certain dog breeds are well-adapted to warmer climate and tolerate hot weather with relative ease. Breeds such as the Chihuahua, Dalmatian, and Basenji have short coats and lean body structures that facilitate heat dissipation, allowing them to stay comfortable in warmer weather. Their minimal fur reduces the risk of overheating, and their efficient panting mechanisms help regulate their body temperature effectively. These breeds often enjoy basking in the sun and participating in outdoor activities even during hot days, although owners should still ensure they have access to shade and water to prevent dehydration.


Moreover, some breeds have evolved in regions with hot climates, equipping them with natural adaptations to thrive in warm weather conditions. These breeds have developed unique features such as hairless or short coats, as well as physiological traits that aid in heat tolerance. Their ability to cope with high temperatures makes them suitable companions for owners living in warm climates, although proper care and attention to hydration and sun protection are still essential to ensure their well-being during hot weather.









Even if your dog tolerates hot weather, it’s still important to prioritize safety. You can check out guidelines on assessing if the weather is too hot for your dog. Ensure your dog always has access to fresh water, provide shaded areas in your yard or outdoor space, and schedule outdoor activities during cooler times of the day to prevent overheating. Never leave your dog in a parked car, monitor for signs of heat exhaustion, and protect their paws from hot pavement. Consider using pet-safe sunscreen on exposed skin areas and seek veterinary assistance if symptoms persist.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

When it comes to unconditional love and unwavering loyalty, few animals can rival the affectionate nature of dogs. These remarkable creatures have earned their reputation as man’s best friend, and it’s no wonder! Many breeds are particularly renowned for their love and devotion to their families. With their warm hearts and wagging tails, affectionate family dogs enrich the lives of their owners in countless ways.


While we like to think that all dogs are creatures of love, some breeds may be more outwardly affectionate than others. Some of this is due to temperament, breed group, and purpose. For example, dogs first bred for working or guarding independently of their human companions may show less affection than dogs specifically bred to be companion animals. Of course, this is no indication of the bond between a human and pup, but rather related to temperament and breed origin.


Affection may be demonstrated through a myriad of heartwarming behaviors. This may including tail-wagging greetings, cuddles on the couch, and an ever-present eagerness to be by their family’s side. This devotion extends to both adults and children, making dogs wonderful additions to family households. The warmth of a dog’s affection not only provides emotional support but also creates an environment of joy and connection within the family, fostering a sense of togetherness.




The affectionate nature of family dogs extends beyond play and cuddles. Dogs have a remarkable ability to sense their owner’s emotions, offering comfort and support during difficult times. Whether it’s a wagging tail after a long day at work or a sympathetic nuzzle during moments of sadness, they prove time and again that they are attuned to their family’s needs.


It is important to note that not all dogs of the same breed will be equally affectionate. Some dogs may be more independent or aloof, while others may be more clingy or demanding of attention. The best way to find out how affectionate a dog is is to meet them in person and interact with them.


See Dogs Less Affectionate with Family

Click here for more information on this characteristic

If you’re looking for a pup to join your household, you may first want to consider the most kid-friendly dog breeds. A gentle nature, patience, and the sturdiness to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs children can dish out can be some of the most kid-friendly dog-defining traits. Of course, a pup with a blasé attitude toward running and screaming children would be a bonus.


At first glance, you may be surprised by the most kid-friendly dogs. Fierce-looking Boxers are considered good with children, as are American Staffordshire Terriers, an affectionate Pit Bull breed. Small, delicate, and potentially snappy dogs such as Chihuahuas aren’t always so family-friendly.


It’s important to note all dogs are individuals. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual dog will behave. Dogs from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences. Additionally, training plays a big role in how dogs will get along with kids. No matter what the breed or breed type, all dogs have strong jaws,  pointy teeth, and may bite under stressful circumstances or mishandling. Young children and dogs of any breed should always be supervised by an adult and never left alone without supervision.






Determining if a dog is kid-friendly involves assessing various aspects of their temperament, behavior, and breed characteristics. A kid-friendly dog should display a gentle and calm demeanor, showing an ability to handle the unpredictable behaviors and noises associated with children. Additionally, behavioral signals like wagging tails and a relaxed body language often indicates a positive interaction with kids.


Breed tendencies also play a role in gauging kid-friendliness. Some breeds are inherently more predisposed to be good with children. It’s essential to consider the dog’s personality, socialization history, and any signs of anxiety or discomfort. A well-socialized dog that has positive experiences with children is more likely to be kid-friendly, regardless of their breed. Conducting meet-and-greet sessions under controlled circumstances and observing the dog’s reactions to children’s actions can provide valuable insights into their suitability for family life.


See Dogs Who Are Not Kid Friendly

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Friendliness toward dogs and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some dogs may intimidate other dogs, even if they’re love-bugs with people; others are naturally more dog friend and would rather play than fight. It’s important to note that breed isn’t the only factor when it comes to how dog-friendly your pup will be. Sure, some dogs breeds first bred for working independently may not immediately gravitate towards other dogs, but early socialization plays a lot more into how dogs will interact than their origin.  Dogs who lived with their littermates and mother until at least six to eight weeks of age or who spent lots of time playing with other dogs during puppyhood are more likely to have good canine social skills.


Still, some dog-friendly breeds are more pack-oriented and naturally thrive with other dogs. Dogs with this trait typically exhibit an innate ability to get along well with other pups. Dogs with this trait may be more eager to greet new dogs, display more social behavior at places like dog parks, or more confidently allow intimate sniffs from their canine acquaintances. This quality extends beyond mere tolerance and often manifests as a genuine enjoyment of the company of fellow canines, making these dogs ideal companions for those looking to build a multi-dog household. Additionally, they’ll pair well with pet parents hoping to take their pooch on social adventures, such as going to dog park or hanging out on dog-friendly patios.






While some dog breeds are more naturally inclined to make friends with other dogs, you may choose a puppy or adult dog that needs a little help. It’s may be common knowledge that there is a small window during a puppy’s early development when they are the most adaptable in terms of how they’ll interact with other dogs. You may, however, bring home an adult dog or a rescue and not get the opportunity. Not to fear! There are still many ways to help your pooch become dog-friendly.


Socialization is always the best way to ensure your dog becomes their most friendly self. You can help by exposing your pooch to as many sights, sounds, and environments as possible. Set up doggy playdates, enroll in dog training classes, or visit the dog park. Of course, be sure to do your research on dog training methods to ensure your dog will listen to you in social settings. Confidence is key!




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Stranger-friendly dogs will greet guests with wagging tails and nuzzles; others are shy, indifferent, or even reserved. However, no matter what the breed, a dog who was socialized and exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a puppy will respond better to strangers as an adult. Remember that even friendly dogs should stay on a good, strong leash in public.


However, it’s worth noting that certain breeds might initially appear more reserved or aloof when encountering new people. Some individuals appreciate this quality, as not everyone seeks a highly sociable canine companion. There is a preference for the calm and composed personalities exhibited by specific breeds. It’s essential to recognize that not all breeds necessarily need to be inherently friendly with strangers; however, it is crucial that your pup is not aggressive or reactive in such situations.






While some dog breeds are more naturally inclined to make friends with strangers, you may choose a puppy or adult dog that needs a little help. It’s may be common knowledge that there is a small window during a puppy’s early development when they are the most adaptable in terms of how they’ll interact with humans. You may, however, bring home an adult dog or a rescue and not get the opportunity. Not to fear! There are still many ways to help your pooch become stranger-friendly.


Socialization is always the best way to ensure your dog becomes their most friendly self. You can help by exposing your pooch to as many sights, sounds, and environments as possible. Set up doggy playdates, enroll in dog training classes, or visit the dog park. Of course, be sure to do your research on dog training methods to ensure your dog will listen to you in social settings. Confidence is key!




Click here for more information on this characteristic

When considering adding a pup into your home, you may want to consider the amount of shedding your furry companion will experience. Regardless of the dog breed, you will want to be prepared for at least some amount of pet hair on your clothing and around your house. Of course, this amount can vary greatly as shedding tendencies differ significantly among breeds. Some dogs shed continuously, especially dog breeds with heavy double-coats or long fur. Others undergo seasonal “blowouts” and some hardly shed at all.


Having a set of grooming tools at your disposal is essential for tending to your dog’s coat. Deshedding tools are excellent for eliminating excess hair that can become trapped in your dog’s fur. There are also brushes designed to gently remove dead hair without causing discomfort to your dog’s skin. Grooming gloves and bathing brushes can aid in loosening dead hair during shampooing, making it easier to brush away. Clippers and a detangling spray effectively tackle matted fur. Additionally, home tools for managing pet hair on fabric and furniture can make a big difference. Pet tape rollers, fur brooms, and specialized vacuums can eliminate pet hair from carpet, clothing, and even furniture.


If you’re someone who values a spotless environment, you might want to opt for a low-shedding breed. Otherwise, equip yourself with the right tools to fight the fur. Concerns about shedding shouldn’t prevent you from relishing your time at home with your dog. Establishing a consistent grooming regimen can significantly minimize the presence of loose hair in your living space and on your clothing. For additional guidance on managing dog shedding, explore our recommendations for addressing excessive shedding and designing your home with your pet (and their shedding tendencies) in mind.


Related:


How to Effectively Deal with Dog Shedding


4 Best Dog Brushes

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Often referred to as “heavy droolers,” some slobbery dog breeds are known for their drooling potential. This trait is more prevalent in certain breeds with loose, jowly skin. A few breeds that may come to mind when thinking about dog drool are Saint Bernards, Bloodhounds, and Mastiffs. Drooling is a natural behavior influenced by factors like genetics, breed characteristics, and individual anatomy. Even among breeds with a higher drooling potential, some dogs may drool very little while others may drool a lot.


While some dogs may only drool more during specific activities like eating or in anticipation of food, others may be consistent heavy droolers due to their inherent physiological makeup. Living with a dog that drools requires a degree of acceptance and proactive management. Pet owners of drooling breeds often keep absorbent towels or bandanas on hand to wipe away excess saliva. This may be particularly necessary after meals or playtime. Regular dental care can also contribute to reduce excessive drooling by addressing potential oral health issues. Despite the occasional mess, many pet owners of drooling dogs appreciate their unique charm.


Drool-prone dogs may drape ropes of slobber on your arm and leave big, wet spots on your clothes when they come over to say hello. If you’ve got a laid-back attitude toward slobber, fine; but if you’re not a fan of the extra slime, you may want to choose a dog who rates low in the drool department.






Owners with slobbery dog breeds should establish a baseline for their dog’s normal drooling levels. There may be instances where excessive drooling indicates an underlying issue rather than typical breed behavior. Excessive drooling in dogs can serve as an indicator of potential underlying issues. Various factors, such as stress, high temperatures, dental problems, allergic reactions, or nausea, may contribute to increased drooling. If your dog usually isn’t very slobbery or if additional concerning symptoms accompany sudden and pronounced drooling, it is advisable to consult with a veterinarian. Keeping track of what is typical for your dog allows you to quickly identify deviations from the norm and address potential health concerns or discomfort.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds are brush-and-go dogs; others require regular bathing, clipping, and other grooming just to stay clean and healthy. Easy-to-groom dogs are a smart choice for pet owners looking for a low-maintenance companion. Breeds with short coats or those that shed minimally often fall into the category of easy-to-groom dogs. Of course there are exceptions to this statement. For example, allergy-friendly, low-shedding Poodles or Poodle Mixes like the Labradoodle or Bernedoodle require frequent grooming. Low-maintenance dog breeds require less frequent brushing sessions. These pups may be more convenient for individuals with busy schedules or those looking for a hassle-free pet care routine.


Owners of low-maintenance dogs also enjoy the benefit of reduced grooming-related expenses. Because these breeds typically don’t require professional services, these low-maintenance breeds end up being more budget-friendly. Common examples of easy-to-groom breeds include Beagles, Labrador Retrievers, and Dachshunds. While regular grooming remains essential for all dogs, the easy-to-groom breeds offer a practical option for pet parents seeking a dog without the added demands of intricate care routines. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a dog who needs a lot of grooming. Alternatively, you may want to consider the budget required to pay someone else to do it.






Beyond the usual brushing, clipping, and trimming needs, some breeds require additional grooming for their unique needs. Breeds such as Pugs and Shar-Peis have loose skin and wrinkles that require extra vigilance during bathing.


First, to prevent grime and even bacteria from becoming a problem, clean between the folds of their skin with damp cotton and then dry well. Keeping these areas dry is also important after a bath or a walk in the rain. Long, droopy-eared pups like the Basset Hound or Cocker Spaniel must be checked weekly for buildups of wax and dirt. A cotton wad with a little water or mineral oil can help keep the ears clean and dry. Drops specifically designed to clean and dry the canal should also be applied for these ear infection-prone dogs. Hair that grows around the canal entrance should be kept trimmed. You can check with a professional groomer or veterinarian for instructions on how to properly and safely do this. Special tools may be available for this unique task.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

While most dogs experience good general health, some breeds may be prone to specific health issues. Conditions like hip dysplasia, cancer, or heart conditions can result from poor breeding practices or genetic dispositions. However, it’s important to note that not every dog of a particular breed will necessarily develop these diseases. Rather, they only face an elevated risk compared to other breeds.


When considering adding a dog or puppy to your home, it’s advisable to research the prevalent genetic illnesses associated with the breed you’re interested in adopting. Additionally, it can be beneficial to inquire whether your chosen shelter or rescue organization possesses information regarding the physical health of the potential pup’s parents and other relatives. This knowledge can aid in understanding potential health risks and ensuring the best possible start for your new furry family member.









The CHIC (Canine Health Information Center), a program created by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA), provides a centralized database for canine health information, particularly focusing on orthopedic and genetic conditions. Despite robust general health, they recommend several health screenings for breeds due to potential predispositions to certain conditions. After screening, the CHIC assigns a number to a dog’s test results. It doesn’t indicate normal results, just that all necessary tests were done and results made available. A CHIC report accompanies the number, detailing the tests, the dog’s age during testing, and the results.


The CHIC program adjusts its requirements based on evolving breed health concerns. Existing CHIC numbers aren’t affected if requirements change. This number is also displayed on AKC documents, including Certified Pedigrees, Registration Applications, and Registration Certificates. This record signifies to potential puppy parents and breed enthusiasts that recommended tests have been completed. Although the CHIC database only includes purebred dogs, you can look up a hybrid breed’s parent breeds for potential health considerations.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Certain dog breeds have a predisposition towards hearty appetites. As a result, they may also be prone to weight gain, similar to humans. Just like in people, obesity in dogs can lead to various health issues. If you opt for a breed prone to packing on pounds, it’s essential to implement strategies to manage their weight effectively. This includes limiting treats, ensuring they receive sufficient exercise, and regulating their daily food intake by serving measured meals instead of leaving food accessible all day.


Consulting with your veterinarian about your dog’s diet is crucial. They can provide valuable insights and recommendations tailored to your pet’s specific needs to help maintain a healthy weight. Weight gain not only poses direct health risks but can also exacerbate existing conditions such as arthritis, leading to further complications if left unchecked. Thus, proactive management of your dog’s weight is integral to their overall well-being and longevity.






To help your dog manage weight gain, start by consulting with your veterinarian to develop a safe and effective weight loss plan tailored to your pet’s individual needs. This may involve adjusting their diet to a lower calorie option or a specialized weight management formula. It may also include measuring their food portions to control calorie intake, and reducing the frequency of treats. Additionally, increasing their physical activity through regular exercise is essential for burning calories and promoting weight loss.


Identifying whether your dog is overweight involves assessing their body condition and observing for signs of excess weight. You can perform a simple visual and tactile evaluation by feeling their ribs and observing their waistline. In a healthy weight dog, you should be able to feel their ribs easily with a slight covering of fat. They should have a noticeable waist when viewed from above. If your dog is overweight, you may observe visible signs such as a lack of a defined waist, a rounded or bulging abdomen, difficulty moving or breathing, or reduced energy levels.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Get ready to meet the giants of the doggy world! Large dog breeds aren’t just big balls of fluff, they’re like loving, oversized teddy bears on a mission to steal your heart. Need some convincing? Let’s dive into the awesome benefits of owning one!


First things first, these pooches are a living security system! With their impressive size and thunderous barks, they’ll have any would-be intruder running for the hills. Talk about peace of mind! Plus, who needs an alarm when you’ve got a furry giant protecting your castle?


But that’s not all. Large dog breeds are all about loyalty and devotion. They’ll stick by your side through thick and thin, becoming your most dedicated bestie. Their love knows no bounds! When you have a giant fluffball showing you unconditional love, you’ll feel like the luckiest human on the planet.


Now, let’s talk about their talents. These big fellas are the ultimate working partners. With brains and brawn, they’re up for any challenge. From search and rescue missions to lending a helping paw to those in need, these dogs are superheroes in fur coats. They’ll make you proud every step of the way!


Don’t let their size fool you—these gentle giants have hearts as big as their paws. They’re incredible with kids and other pets, spreading their love like confetti. Their patience and kindness make them perfect family pets, ensuring harmony in your household.


Oh, and get ready to break a sweat! These dogs are fitness enthusiasts, and they’ll keep you on your toes. Daily walks, jogs, and play sessions will not only keep them happy and healthy but will also give you a reason to ditch the couch and join in on the fun. It’s a win-win situation!


So, if you’re ready for a dose of big love, go ahead and consider a large dog breed. They’re the best wing-dog you could ever ask for, ready to make your life a thousand times more exciting, loving, and downright awesome! Get ready for the big adventure of a lifetime!






Click here for more information on this characteristic

Easy-to-train dogs have an innate ability to quickly understand the relationships between prompts, actions, and rewards. For example, when told to “sit,” easy-to-train dogs quickly associate the command with the action of sitting, knowing that compliance results in a positive outcome, such as receiving a treat. This ability to learn quickly makes training easier and more enjoyable for both the dog and the owner. On the contrary, some dogs may need more time, patience, and consistent repetition to form these associations, emphasizing the importance of tailoring training methods to individual learning styles.


It’s crucial to keep in mind that dogs that present challenges aren’t necessarily less intelligent; rather, they may exhibit a more independent nature shaped by their breeding history. Breeds like Livestock Guardian Dogs, for instance, developed an inherent independence due to their historical role in guarding flocks without constant human supervision. This independent spirit, while a unique and valuable trait, can pose challenges when it comes to imparting basic commands. Having been bred to think and act autonomously, they may require a bit more patience and understanding from their owners.






Training is essential to keep your dog safe in various situations, whether it’s staying within the yard or maintaining control during emergencies. The mental exercise from training helps keep your dog sharp, burn off excess energy, and minimize undesirable behaviors. Consistency and patience are key; reward your dog when they get it right. As the adage says, you can always teach an old dog new tricks.


No matter what you’re trying to teach your dog, from housetraining to “heel,” there are a few basic guidelines that can help make the process easier. Be sure to check out our feature on several of the most popular dog training methods. We also have articles on the basics of leash training for your pups. If you’ve got the basics covered and are looking for a few extra tricks, check out 10 Fun, Impressive Tricks You Can Teach Any Dog.


Related:


Dogs Who Are Challenging To Train

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs exhibit a remarkable spectrum of intelligence, encompassing a wide array of cognitive abilities and problem-solving skills. From the astute problem-solving abilities of breeds like Border Collies to the keen observational skills of German Shepherds, canine intelligence manifests in various forms. Some dogs excel in tasks requiring social intelligence, such as understanding human emotions and cues. Other may showcase exceptional learning capacity in their ability to master complex commands and tasks. Additionally, certain breeds demonstrate remarkable memory retention and the ability to adapt to new situations swiftly. However, it’s essential to recognize that intelligence in dogs is diverse and multifaceted. Intelligence is influenced not only by genetics, but also by individual experiences and environmental factors.


Dogs bred for tasks requiring decision-making, intelligence, and focus, such as herding livestock, require mental stimulation akin to how dogs bred for endurance need physical exercise. Lacking such mental engagement, they may resort to activities like digging or chewing to occupy themselves. It’s worth noting that while intelligence is valued, it doesn’t always correlate with trainability, especially in breeds bred for independent thinking. Hello, Livestock Guardians! Incorporating obedience training, interactive toys, and engaging activities like dog sports or careers such as agility and search and rescue can provide the mental challenge these dogs crave.









Keeping your dog mentally stimulated is crucial for their well-being. One way to do this is through interactive play and toys. Treat-dispensing toys or puzzles that require problem-solving can keep your dog entertained and mentally engaged. Regularly rotating toys can also prevent boredom. Additionally, incorporating training sessions into your daily routine provides mental stimulation while strengthening your bond with your dog. Teaching new tricks or practicing obedience commands challenges their mind and keeps them sharp.


Another way to stimulate your dog mentally is through enrichment activities. This includes activities that engage their senses, such as hide-and-seek games using treats or scent trails. Taking your dog on different walking routes or exploring new environments introduces novelty and mental stimulation. Additionally, providing opportunities for social interaction with other dogs through playdates or visits to dog parks can stimulate their minds through socialization. Regularly changing up their environment and offering new experiences helps prevent monotony and keeps your dog mentally sharp and happy.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Mouthiness, a tendency to nip, chew, and playfully bite, is a common behavior in puppies across many dog breeds. For some breeds, the tendency persists into adulthood, particularly with sporting and herding breeds. Because of this inherent instinct in many breeds, mouthy dogs are more inclined to use their mouths to hold or “herd” their human family members. Of course, this isn’t always appreciated! They require training to learn that chewing on toys is acceptable, but not on people. Breeds with a higher potential for mouthiness often greatly enjoy interactive games like fetch, as well as chewing on toys stuffed with kibble and treats.




Puppy mouthing and nipping may seem cute initially, but it can develop into an unwanted habit as the dog matures, especially in breeds with a potential for mouthiness. It’s important to understand that in the early stages of a puppy’s development, biting and mouthing is one of the ways they begin to explore and understand their environment. These aren’t true bites, but rather the puppy using their mouth to sense and interact with its surroundings. Even so, it’s a good idea to teach your dog commands like “drop it” or “let go” from a young age. This will help curb the mouthing behavior before it becomes an entrenched problem in adulthood.






The best way to train your dog out of mouthiness is to teach them how to play with a gentle mouth. Whenever your dog puts their mouth on your skin, make a high-pitched yelp or squeal. This teaches them that biting hurts. As they learn that their bite causes discomfort, they’ll start to use less pressure. It’s crucial to help your dog understand that they may accidentally apply too much force, resulting in a painful bite. You’ll need to consistently use this technique until your dog only applies the lightest pressure, using just their gums, when engaging in playful mouthing behaviors.


The key is to show your dog that hard bites are unacceptable, so they learn to play more gently with a soft mouth. The yelping response reinforces this lesson over time, allowing your dog to develop more control and gentleness when playing with their mouth.CopyRetry

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs with a high prey drive have an instinctive desire to stalk, capture, and prey upon potential food sources. Dogs who were bred to hunt, such as Terriers, have an inborn desire to chase — and sometimes kill — other animals. Anything whizzing by — such as cats, squirrels, and perhaps even cars — can trigger that instinct.




Off-leash adventures are too great a temptation for pups who will wander and hunt. Dogs who like to chase need to be leashed. And, even on a leash, you may experience your dog pulling on the leash to reach rodents or birds in their sight. Otherwise, these pups should be kept in a fenced area when outdoors. If your pup has a high prey drive, you’ll need a high, secure fence in your yard.


These breeds generally aren’t a good fit for homes with smaller pets that can look like prey, such as cats, hamsters, or small dogs. Breeds that were originally used for bird hunting, on the other hand, generally won’t chase, but you’ll probably have a hard time getting their attention when there are birds flying by.




Observing your dog’s prey drive, which is instinctual and biologically-rooted, is not the same as observing aggression. Much aggression is born of fear and anxiety, especially in the case of dog aggression toward humans.


The tendency to wander, even into oncoming traffic, can produce diasterious results for pups with predatory instincts. It can also lead to pups being bitten by snakes or attacked by other wild animals they may pursue while on the hunt.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds sound off more often than others. When choosing a breed, think about how often the dog vocalizes. Learn more about breeds with a tendency to bark or howl.


If you’re considering a hound, would you find their trademark howls musical or maddening? If you’re considering a watchdog, will a city full of suspicious “strangers” put your pup on permanent alert? Will the local wildlife literally drive your dog wild? Do you live in housing with noise restrictions? Do you have neighbors nearby who may not be thrilled about the booming barks? Then you may wish to choose a quieter dog.









Training a dog with a tendency to bark or howl excessively requires patience, consistency, and positive reinforcement techniques. Begin by identifying the triggers that prompt your dog to bark, whether it’s the doorbell, passing cars, or other animals. Once you understand the underlying causes, work on desensitizing your dog to these stimuli through gradual exposure and counterconditioning. For example, if your dog barks at the doorbell, practice ringing the bell repeatedly at a low volume while rewarding calm behavior with treats or praise. Gradually increase the intensity of the stimulus while continuing to reward quiet responses, reinforcing the idea that remaining quiet brings positive rewards.


In addition to desensitization exercises, teach your dog an alternative behavior to replace barking, such as “quiet” or “speak.” Use these commands in training sessions to encourage your dog to bark on cue and then stop when prompted. Consistency is crucial, so ensure everyone in the household is on board with the training plan and reinforces the desired behavior consistently. Finally, provide mental and physical stimulation through regular exercise and interactive toys to help alleviate boredom and reduce the likelihood of excessive barking.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs possess a natural inclination for exploration and adventure, often displaying wanderlust tendencies that stem from their ancestral instincts. With their keen sense of smell and curiosity, dogs are drawn to new scents, sights, and experiences. As a result, they may be inherently prone to wander off if given the opportunity. This wanderlust potential varies across breeds, with some exhibiting stronger instincts for exploration than others. Breeds such as the Siberian Husky, Beagle, and Australian Shepherd are known for their independent spirits and high energy levels. They may be more likely to wander off in search of excitement or stimulation. However, even breeds typically considered more docile may still succumb to wanderlust if not properly trained or supervised.






To mitigate the risk of dogs wandering away, responsible pet ownership involves implementing preventative measures and training techniques. Providing adequate physical and mental stimulation through regular exercise, interactive play, and enrichment activities can help satisfy a dog’s innate desire for exploration and reduce the likelihood of wandering behavior. Having a general awareness of the “escape artist” tendencies in certain breeds can help you in ensuring the safety of your pup. Additionally, training commands such as recall and leash manners are essential for establishing boundaries and ensuring that dogs remain under control when outdoors. Investing in secure fencing for outdoor spaces and using identification tags or microchips can also provide added security and peace of mind in case of accidental escapes.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Energetic dogs, bred for specific tasks such as retrieving for hunters or herding livestock, are always ready for action and have enough stamina to work a full day. Additionally, active dogs with high energy levels necessitate a significant amount of physical and mental activity. These dogs enjoy jumping, playing, and discovering new sights and smells. Owners of high-energy breeds must provide outlets for their dogs’ physical and mental needs to keep them healthy and happy.


Low-energy dogs, on the other hand, are the canine equivalent of a couch potato, content to spend their days sleeping. When choosing a dog breed, you should consider your activity level and the energy level of your potential companion. Determine whether you would find certain dogs’ lively and energetic personalities invigorating or potentially overwhelming. Understanding a breed’s energy requirements is critical for ensuring a harmonious match between the dog’s needs and the owner’s preferences, resulting in a satisfying and balanced companionship.






Exercise requirements for high-energy dogs can vary even within the same breed. It’s also important to note that age doesn’t exempt senior dogs from exercise; they simply require shorter walks compared to their younger years. For energetic dogs, a leashed stroll around the block won’t be enough. The goal is to ensure that your dog is sufficiently tired and content by the time the exercise session concludes.


To meet the exercise needs of active breeds, it’s recommended to provide at least 30 minutes of vigorous aerobic exercise most days. This applies not only to larger breeds but also to smaller ones. Some toy breeds are prone to obesity and may need more activity than one might assume. Safety is paramount, so during extreme weather conditions, it’s advisable to stay indoors and engage your dog’s mind through activities like trick training, interactive play with toys, or running up and down stairs together. A well-rounded exercise routine involves activities that challenge both mental and physical muscles, such as exploring new hiking trails. Check out our guide on the Top 10 Ways to Exercise With Your Dog.








Click here for more information on this characteristic

A dog with high intensity exudes boundless energy and enthusiasm in everything they do, whether it’s pulling on the leash, tackling obstacles with gusto, or devouring meals with voracious appetite. While their exuberance can be endearing, it also necessitates consistent training to instill good manners. However, not everyone will appreciate their high energy levels. Some high intensity dogs may not pair well to households with young children or individuals who are elderly or frail, as their exuberance could inadvertently pose a risk.


In contrast, a low-intensity dog approaches life with a more relaxed and subdued demeanor. These dogs typically exhibit a calmer disposition, preferring leisurely strolls and gentle interactions over exuberant displays of energy. Their tranquil nature often makes them ideal companions for those seeking a more laid-back canine companion. This may be particularly true in homes where a quieter atmosphere is preferred.









Training and exercise are crucial for dogs with high-intensity personalities to manage their energy effectively. Consistent training using positive reinforcement techniques helps instill good manners and impulse control. Engaging them in mentally stimulating activities, alongside regular physical exercise like agility or fetch, is essential to prevent boredom-driven behaviors and promote overall well-being. Variety in their exercise routine, such as exploring new trails or participating in dog sports, ensures both physical and mental stimulation for a balanced and fulfilling life.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Different dog breeds have varying exercise needs, and understanding these requirements is crucial for ensuring a happy and healthy canine companion. Some breeds are content with a leisurely evening stroll around the block, while others demand daily, vigorous exercise routines, particularly those originally bred for physically demanding tasks like herding or hunting. Without sufficient physical activity, these high-energy breeds may face issues such as weight gain and express their pent-up energy in undesirable behaviors like excessive barking, chewing, and digging.


We often think of exercise only as a health issue, but it has significant day-to-day effects on a dog’s behavior as well. Dogs — particularly puppies and young dogs — have a lot of energy, and if they don’t get the chance to burn it off, destructive behavior is often the result. If you’re annoyed at your dog’s digging, have headaches from barking, and need to replace pillows shredded into expensive fluff, your dog is probably not getting enough exercise.






Generally speaking, a leashed walk around the block isn’t going to cut it. Most dogs need 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity a day. Your canine pal needs enough that they’re slowed down by the time you stop.


Some general guidelines for getting your dog enough exercise:















Click here for more information on this characteristic

Understanding your dog’s temperament is crucial when considering their exercise and play needs. Some dogs have a high potential for playfulness, constantly seeking out games and activities to engage in. These playful pups can be endearing, but it’s essential to consider how much time and energy you have to dedicate to play each day. Think about whether you’re prepared for multiple rounds of fetch or tag and if you have other family members, kids, or even other dogs who can serve as playmates for your furry friend.


On the other hand, some dogs are more serious by nature. While they may still enjoy playtime, it might not be as frequent or vigorous as with their more playful counterparts. Understanding your dog’s individual temperament helps you tailor their exercise routine to suit their needs and preferences. It’s about finding the right balance between providing enough mental and physical stimulation without overwhelming them or neglecting their need for relaxation and downtime.









Playing with our pups is good for us. Seriously, science says so! To make the most of spending time with breeds with a high potential for playfulness, consider incorporating a variety of interactive games and toys to keep them mentally stimulated and physically active. Engage in activities such as fetch, tug-of-war, or hide-and-seek, which tap into their natural instincts and provide both mental and physical exercise. Use positive reinforcement, such as treats and praise, to encourage good behavior and reinforce the bond between you. Remember to be patient and flexible, allowing your dog to lead the play session and adapt to their preferences. Finally, ensure a safe environment by removing any potential hazards and supervising closely, especially when introducing new toys or activities.

Click here for more information on this characteristic
Who says blondes have more fun? Any self-respecting Irish Setter would dispute that claim. These fun-loving dogs are tremendously likeable, not only for their flame-colored hair, but also for their athleticism, grace, and enthusiasm. When you live with an Irish Setter, you can be assured of having a happy, friendly companion who’s always ready to rock and roll.
Originally developed as a bird dog, the Irish Setter retains the drive and energy of his forefathers. There’s nothing he enjoys more than doing new things and going new places, especially if they involve birds. Although he’s not seen as much in the field as some other sporting breeds, his hunting instinct is still strong. Once he’s trained on birds, he never needs a refresher course.
While the Irish Setter loves everyone, he’s not suited to every home. He’s brimming with energy and requires a minimum of an hour of exercise daily. A large fenced yard or acreage where he can run is important, as is an active family who will include him in everything they do. If he’s left to his own devices, he can develop separation anxiety or become destructive.
Irish Setters come in two types: show and field dogs. Irish Setter show dogs are heavier and larger than field dogs, with a heavier, thicker coat. Both types meet the breed standard. Regardless of size and coat, the Irish Setter should maintain his natural ability to be a gundog.
Beyond their talents in the field, Irish Setters excel at many other activities, including obedience, rally, tracking, and agility competition. With their wonderful temperaments, they make terrific therapy dogs and can be found visiting hospices, retirement homes, and children’s hospitals, spreading the gift of their warmth, humor, and love.
Irish Setters are known for their intelligence, but they’re also mischievous and independent. Training them requires much patience and consistency. This breed is slow to mature, so you’ll have a full-grown dog with puppylike enthusiasm and activity levels for several years. Not surprisingly, they’re great playmates for active older children, but they can be overwhelming for toddlers, who may find themselves bowled over by this rascally redhead.
The Irish Setter has been loved by movie stars, presidents, and ordinary people who admire him for his joyful spirit. He’s a wonderful companion who will keep you fit and make you laugh throughout your life.
It’s not surprising that this handsome redhead comes from Ireland, which is famous for fine and beautiful dogs. The Irish Setter appears to have been developed there in the 18th century, probably by combining English Setters, spaniels, pointers, and Gordon Setters.
Those first Irish Setters were sometimes called red spaniels — a clue to their heritage, perhaps — or modder rhu, Gaelic for “red dog.” Often, they were white and red instead of the solid dark red we see today. Some, described as “shower of hail” dogs, had red coats sprinkled with small white spots.
The Irish Earl of Enniskillen may have started the fad for solid red dogs. By 1812, he would have no other kind in his kennels. Other Irish breeders of the time who preferred the red dogs were Jason Hazzard of Timaskea in County Fermanagh and Sir St. George Gore.
A dog named Elcho was the first Irish Setter imported to the United States. He arrived in 1875 and became a star not only in the show ring but also in the field. The first Irish Setter registered by the American Kennel Club was Admiral, in 1878. They quickly became one of the most popular breeds in America and a favorite in the show ring.
Between 1874 and 1948, 760 Irish Setters became conformation champions, while only five became field champions. This sparked alarm for some fanciers of the original breed, and in 1940 the magazine Field and Stream called for a resurrection of the breed as a working dog.
Today, it’s not unusual to see two types: the larger, heavier show dog, and the lighter, sleeker field dog. The Irish Setter’s popularity soared in the 1960s and 1970s, thanks to the books and movie featuring an Irish Setter named Big Red, as well as the presence of Irish Setter King Timahoe at the White House during the Nixon administration. Today, the Irish Setter ranks 68th among the 155 breeds and varieties recognized by the AKC.
The typical male Irish Setter stands 27 inches at the shoulder and weighs 70 pounds; females are 25 inches and weigh 60 pounds.
The Irish Setter is fun-loving, playful, and affectionate, always ready for a rollicking good time. He can be mischievous and isn’t above raiding your underwear drawer and prancing into the living room bearing a leopard-print thong in his teeth — while guests are there, natch. Irish Setters are outgoing and love people. They aren’t really guard dogs, although they’ve been known to step in and protect their people as needed.
They are, however, excellent watchdogs and will bark to let you know of visitors or intruders. Irish Setters are slow to mature and will retain their puppy enthusiasm for several years and often throughout their life. Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization.
Like every dog, Irish Setters need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they’re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Irish Setter puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Irish Setters are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they’re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Irish Setters will get any or all of these diseases, but it’s important to be aware of them if you’re considering this breed.
The best home for an Irish Setter is one with a large fenced yard or acreage. This breed needs room to run. He is a hunting dog, so he must be contained by a fence or restrained by a leash to prevent him from wandering off. He should live indoors with his family, never alone in a kennel or backyard.
Irish Setters need at least an hour of exercise daily. This can be done in a variety of different ways, but one of the best ways is to allow the Irish Setter to run. He’s a great jogging companion and will also enjoy running alongside a bicycle. Long walks, playing fetch, swimming, and of course hunting are other excellent ways to exercise your Irish Setter.
Irish Setter puppies have different exercise needs. From 8 weeks to 4 months of age, puppy kindergarten once or twice a week is a great way for them to get exercise, training, and socialization, plus 15 to 20 minutes of playtime in the yard, morning and evening. Throw a ball for them to fetch. From 4 to 6 months of age, weekly obedience classes and daily half-mile walks will meet their needs, plus playtime in the yard.
From 6 months to a year of age, play fetch with a ball or Frisbee for up to 40 minutes during cool mornings or evenings, not in the heat of the day. Continue to limit walks to a half mile.
After he’s a year old, your Irish Setter pup can begin to jog with you, but keep the distance to less than a mile, run on soft surfaces such as grass or dirt, and give him frequent breaks along the way. As he continues to mature, you can increase the distance and time you run. These graduated levels of exercise will protect his developing bones and joints.
Irish Setters are intelligent dogs who are easy to train, although they require firmness and consistency to prevent them from taking advantage of you. You must be able to provide leadership without using anger or physical force. Training an Irish Setter is primarily a matter of preventing boredom on his part. He tends to suffer from attention deficit disorder. Help him focus by keeping him entertained.
Use positive reinforcement techniques such as food rewards, praise, and play, and avoid repetitive exercises. Switch rewards and activities frequently to retain his interest. He accepts fair corrections good-naturedly.
Crate training is a must for your Irish Setter puppy. This breed is curious and will examine anything and everything with his mouth. A crate will help keep your puppy and your belongings safe when you aren’t around to supervise.
Most Irish Setters are easy to housetrain. Be consistent, keep the puppy on a schedule, and use a crate. The most important thing to remember is that housetraining is a long process. Your Irish Setter puppy may understand where he needs to do his business, but he may not have the bladder control to see it through until he’s 4 months or older. If you will be gone for long periods of time for work or other activities, it’s important to have someone who will let the puppy out for a pee break.
Recommended daily amount: 2 to 3 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals.
NOTE: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don’t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog.
If you’re unsure whether he’s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can’t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Irish Setter, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
His beautiful coat is one of the characteristics that give the Irish Setter his reputation as one of the most beautiful breeds in the dog world. Short and fine on the head and forelegs, the burnished mahogany or rich chestnut red coat is moderately long and straight on the rest of the body, with long, silky feathering on the ears, the backs of the forelegs and thighs, and the tail, and a fringe of hair on the belly and chest.
In the show ring, Irish Setters are trimmed to emphasize the lean head and clean neck and to show the natural outline of the foot. Brush your Irish Setter at least every other day to keep his coat shiny and tangle-free. Check for burrs and other debris any time he’s been out in the field or on a hike.
Unless he rolls in something stinky, he shouldn’t need a bath more than a couple of times a year, as long as you keep him well brushed. You can bathe him more frequently if you want, however, and you’ll need to if you plan to show him. Use a shampoo made for dogs to avoid drying out his coat and skin.
All breeds with pendant, or hanging, ears tend to have issues with ear infections. Check your Irish Setter’s ears weekly and wipe them out with a cotton ball moistened with a cleanser recommended by your veterinarian. Never stick cotton swabs or anything else into the ear canal or you might damage it. Your Irish Setter may have an ear infection if the inside of the ear smells bad, looks red or seems tender, or he frequently shakes his head or scratches at his ear.
Brush your Irish Setter’s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath.
Trim nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn’t wear them down naturally. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they’re too long. Short, neatly trimmed nails keep the feet in good condition and prevent your legs from getting scratched when your Irish Setter enthusiastically jumps up to greet you.
Begin accustoming your Irish Setter to being brushed and examined when he’s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears.Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you’ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he’s an adult.
As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the ears, nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
Irish Setters are good friends for active older children, but they can be too rambunctious for toddlers. It’s all too easy for an Irish Setter to accidentally knock a child down. Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party.
Teach your child never to approach any dog while he’s eating or sleeping or to try to take the dog’s food away. No dog, no matter how friendly, should ever be left unsupervised with a child. Irish Setters are also good with other dogs in the household, as well as cats, especially if they’re raised with them, but they might see pet birds as prey since those are what they are bred to hunt.
Irish Setters are often purchased without any clear understanding of what goes into owning one. There are many Irish Setters in need of adoption and or fostering. There are a number of rescues that we have not listed. If you don’t see a rescue listed for your area, contact the national breed club or a local breed club and they can point you toward an Irish Setter rescue.
Finding a reputable dog breeder is one of the most important decisions you will make when bringing a new dog into your life. Reputable breeders are committed to breeding healthy, well-socialized puppies that will make great companions. They will screen their breeding stock for health problems, socialize their puppies from a young age, and provide you with lifetime support.On the other hand, backyard breeders are more interested in making a profit than in producing healthy, well-adjusted dogs. They may not screen their breeding stock for health problems, and they may not socialize their puppies properly. As a result, puppies from backyard breeders are more likely to have both health and behavioral issues.
The Irish Setter Club of America can help you find a reputable breeder.
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Kseniia Kolesnikova, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 7, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Many dog enthusiasts claim that the Irish Setter is the most beautiful breed to ever exist, due in part to their flowing luxurious hair, endearing expression, and regal behavior. The typical Irish Setter’s personality is fun-loving, playful, and affectionate when it comes to interacting with their human and dog companions. Let’s take a closer look at this interesting breed!
Height:
22–26 inches
Weight:
55–70 pounds
Lifespan:
12–15 years
Colors:
Chestnut, mahogany, red
Suitable for:
Active families, sporting and hunting enthusiasts, houses with yards
Temperament:
Spirited, independent, affectionate, playful, active, athletic
Irish Setters are a mixture of fun, seriousness, loyalty, and stubbornness. These determined dogs love adventure and outdoor activities. They tend to play by their own rules when they can get away with it, but they are smart and like to please their companions, so they typically take well to training.

As puppies, Irish Setters are curious, rambunctious, and all over the place. They’ll leave no corner or closet unturned during their daytime adventures around the house. They learn from their mothers and siblings during their first few weeks of life, then move on to learning from the human companions that they regularly interact with.
Generally, this is a slow-maturing dog breed in terms of mental and physical attributes. They won’t reach their full growth potential until they’re between 2 and 3 years old, and they tend to hold on to some of their puppy behavior and personality for a lifetime.
While the exact origin of the Irish Setter is not known, it is believed that they were developed from a mix of the English and Gordon Setters, Spaniels, and Pointers. It seems that their earlier ancestors had coats of a combination of red and white fur, not solid red or mahogany like the Irish Setters that we know today. The solid red Irish Setter is said to have originally appeared during the 18th century in Ireland.
Like all other Setters, this breed seems to have been developed for hunting. They would locate and “point toward” prey birds in the uplands. They excelled at their jobs due to their ability to traverse extreme terrains and their amazing scent receptors. It is reported that the Irish Setter first set “paw” on land in the United States during the early 19th century.

The Irish Setter displays a mixture of different behaviors and temperaments that makes it interesting to spend time with them. Many are smart and fun-loving, which can result in entertainment for the whole family while spending time in the backyard during a summertime barbecue. However, some are more adventurous and independent. They prefer spending most of their time walking, hiking, hunting, camping, or swimming at the beach. Then there are those that like to keep more to themselves and spend time with just their immediate companions within the household. Other Irish Setters display a combination of all these traits.
One thing is for sure: The Irish Setter is never boring, lazy, or sensitive when it comes to facing challenges and excitement throughout their lives.
The Irish Setter can be a good fit for active families that like to hike, hang out at the park, camp, hunt, or farm, among other similar activities. They yearn to be outside where they can be free to explore their surroundings and engage in a job that makes their caretakers proud. They can get along well with kids under supervision, and they will protect their family members with everything they’ve got when push comes to shove.
Yes, the Irish Setters can get along with other pets that live in their household. These outgoing dogs seem to thrive on having friends, so they take well to fellow canines and are happy to be part of a pack anywhere. They can also get along with cats if they socialize with them while still puppies.
When it comes to keeping the Irish Setter fed, you should know that this active breed likes to eat as much as they can and as fast as they can. This means they tend to swallow excess amounts of air while consuming food, making this breed susceptible to developing a serious condition called bloat, or gastric dilatation-volvulus. This problem develops when the stomach fills with gas and twists on itself.
When this happens, the blood supply to the stomach is cut off and food and water cannot pass through the digestive system. This condition, if left unchecked, can quickly become fatal. Therefore, take steps to minimize the risk of bloat development by utilizing a slow-feeder bowl during mealtimes.
Exercise is essential to the health and happiness of the Irish Setter. This active and athletic dog doesn’t like sitting around all day in a house or a yard. They must go outdoors for at least 1 hour of vigorous exercise each day to maintain their mental and physical health. As senior dogs, their energy levels and exercise requirements will decrease, though only slightly.
These dogs should get exercise in the form of brisk walking, jogging, hiking, swimming, agility training, and hunting. A certain amount can be experienced in a fenced yard when playing with the kids or engaging in games like fetch. When it’s too dark, cold, or hot to engage in outdoor activity, games like “hide-and-seek” and puzzle toys can offer low-key exercise options indoors.
This intelligent breed can take well to training, especially if it’s implemented during puppyhood. The Irish Setter needs training to ensure that they behave as expected both inside and outside the house. Without obedience training, this breed is likely to become hard-headed and stubborn, doing only what they want and ignoring commands that they aren’t interested in following.
Irish Setters are shedders and require regular brushing to keep their coats looking supple and healthy. Using a soft bristle or pin brush two or three times a week should be sufficient. A long-toothed comb might be necessary occasionally to get rid of tangles. Bathing is not necessary unless obvious dirt and/or mud has built up in the coat. Some owners choose to trim their dog’s hair to keep it looking its best as time goes on.
As with most well-bred dogs, the Irish Setter is generally healthy. However, there are a few hereditary health conditions that they could be predisposed to. Good breeders should conduct testing and ensure that they are not breeding these issues into their pups.
There are not any serious differences between male and female Irish Setters to support. Some people think that their females are more independent, but no research has been done on the topic. One thing is for sure, though: Both males and females will look to procreate during the times of year that it is appropriate if they have not been spayed or neutered.
In the United States, this breed was once referred to as the Irish Red Setter to help ensure that they were distinguished from the Red and White Setters that were also popular in Ireland.
The Irish Setter Club of America states that this breed matures slowly, both in terms of mentality and physicality. They tend to keep their puppyhood nature throughout their lives.
These dogs maintain outgoing attitudes both at home and in public situations. They happily greet guests when their human companions are at home, and they don’t mind meeting new people and dogs at parks and other places where socialization is natural.
Irish Setters are intelligent, playful, athletic, active, and outgoing. They have so much going for them! These dogs deserve happy homes with active families or singles who want to go on adventures with their companions for many years to come.
See also:
Featured Image Credit: Kseniia Kolesnikova, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Rachael has been a freelance writer since 2000. In this time she has had an opportunity to research and write about many different topics while working to master the art of fusing high-quality content with effective content marketing strategies. She is an artist at heart and loves to read, paint, and make jewelry. As a vegan, Rachael is obsessed with helping animals in need, both in her community and anywhere in the world where she feels she can make a difference. Animals also happen to be her favorite topic to write about! She lives off the grid in Hawaii with her husband, her garden, and her rescue animals including 5 dogs, a cat, a goat, and flock of chickens.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share
Height:
22 – 26 inches
Weight:
60 – 70 pounds
Lifespan:
12 – 15 years
Colors:
Chestnut red, mahogany
Suitable for:
Active families looking for a playful dog
Temperament:
Energetic, loyal, independent, outgoing
Few breeds command the attention that the Irish Setter receives. This is a handsome dog with a storied past, both in and outside of the show ring. The breed is a sporting canine used by hunters to find birds and other upland game. This pooch has the boundless energy and persistence to succeed in this job, and they’re a born gun dog.
However, that doesn’t mean that they can’t win your heart as an excellent family pet. This pup is exceedingly friendly with a keen sense of playfulness. They’re always a little puppy inside, ready for a game of fetch. They will do best in a home that can satisfy their need to run and stay active. The Irish Setter is a loyal pet, even leaning toward the protective side, and they’ll make a fine guardian for the kids.
This pooch is sometimes a handful. While eager to please, the Irish Setter has an independent streak that matches their energetic ways. Their hunting background accounts for these personality traits. It also speaks to the breed’s intelligence. Let’s delve more into the characteristics and history of this sometimes-mischievous pup.
The background of the Irish Setter provides some valuable clues about what to expect when you have one as a pet. This pooch needs daily exercise. It’s worth mentioning that this dog has a strong prey drive, given their history. They will pursue an animal that runs from them, giving the pooch a high wanderlust potential.
The Irish Setter is something of a commitment, whether it’s to training, grooming, or socialization. they are sometimes nippy, especially as a puppy. You must teach them proper canine manners so that they don’t pick up bad habits like barking or chewing. Their size makes it necessary. However, they respond well to guidance. They just need to know what you expect of them.

Historically, the Irish Setter is a bird dog. That was their original role in the countryside of their native country, Ireland. When they spot their quarry, they alert the hunter that there is upland game in the area, and they don’t tip off the birds in the process.
The Irish Setter has caught the fancy of many people, including some important individuals. The breed has a famous one as the pet of President Richard Nixon. He named his pup after the town of his ancestors, King Timahoe.
It’s easy to see why the Irish Setter has endeared itself to so many people. This dog was the inspiration for a song by the Beach Boys, no less. Guitarist-singer Carl Wilson owned a pup named Shannon, who was the subject of the song of the same name. The tune caught on and hit gold.

The Irish Setter has many traits that make them an excellent choice as a pet, albeit with some contrasts thrown into the mix, too. This is an intelligent dog that needs mental stimulation or they will get bored. They want to learn new commands and tricks. However, they are sometimes willful, which can make it a challenge, but this pup has a loving nature that makes it worth the effort.
The Irish Setter makes an excellent family pet. They’re affectionate and friendly with everyone they meet. They’re also kid-friendly, although, they may forget how big they are compared to smaller children. This pup craves attention. If they don’t get enough love, they can suffer from separation anxiety. It can also result in some undesirable behaviors that you must correct.
You’re in luck if you have other pets—to a degree. The Irish Setter would often hunt with other dogs in the field. That fact gives them tolerance when around other canines in your home. As we mentioned earlier, there is also the prey drive to consider, which can make life with pets other than dogs a concern. As with other breeds, raising cats and dogs together is a viable option to head off problems down the road.
As you’ve learned, owning an Irish Setter has its challenges. This dog needs discipline out of the gate. Getting along with everyone in the household is a guarantee for humans but not necessarily other pets. There is also a time and attention commitment. The last two are the most critical. If you can’t be sure that you can provide them consistently, then this breed isn’t the best choice for your lifestyle.
The activity level of the Irish Setter helps to ensure that they’ll stay trim. They are not couch potatoes. That said, they must have a diet formulated for dogs of their size. They mature more slowly than smaller breeds. In this case, it is both physically and mentally. Base the proportions you give them based on their appearance. The info on the food label isn’t the final word, though. You must make sure you seek advice from your vet to ensure you’re meeting your pet’s individual needs.
We’ve talked a lot about the activity level of the Irish Setter. That’s a deciding factor for both your and your pet’s happiness in your home. Remember that this dog had the run in the field during the hunt, and they expect that even today. A large backyard to explore is an excellent way to keep them satisfied. However, they’ll also need the regular run in the doggie park or a bracing walk to work off their energy.
The Irish Setter makes it easy to train. This dog is intelligent and can learn quickly. On the other hand, they have a stubborn streak that will likely show up when you’re trying to teach them something they view as boring. This dog needs mental stimulation. That was an integral part of their life, back in the day. Bear in mind that this pup is also sensitive. Positive reinforcement instead of harsh reprimand is the key to success.
Grooming is a commitment with the Irish Setter. Their long and fine coat needs daily attention to keep it from matting. That’s especially true if you plan to make them a hunting companion. Their fur is a burr-magnet. A pair of rounded-tip scissors is a must-have to keep the coat looking neat and trim. That advice also applies to their paws and ears.
Irish Setters are prone to dental issues. You should brush their teeth regularly to keep their gums healthy. You should also keep an eye on their nails. Their ears will need some attention to prevent ear infections. A healthy diet will go a long way toward making them look their best.
The popularity of a breed often works against a dog. That is also the case with the Irish Setter. While they are not as common as they once were, the health issues persist. Some of them what you’d expect with any larger canine. Joint problems are always a bane with these dogs. The critical thing to understand is that some of these conditions appear later in life, so that means subsequent testing.
There is a small variation in size between the sexes. It also exists with dogs that go in the field or stick to the show ring. The difference boils down to breeding. If you have a pup that you want to mate, get a puppy from a decent bloodline. If not, neuter the dog. It’s the responsible thing to do. Bear in mind that it’s a cheaper and easier process with females versus males.
The Irish Setter is a dog that you can’t ignore. Their gorgeous coat and stately manner are enough to capture your interest. It helps that they are so good-natured and friendly, which makes them an ideal family pet. This dog loves its tribe, almost to a fault. They adore people and want to spend every moment with them. Their intelligence is both a godsend and a challenge.
As long as you can keep up with their energy, the Irish Setter is an excellent choice for a family pet. They’ll keep up with the kids and get along with the neighborhood dogs. This pup ticks off all the boxes for everything you can want from a canine buddy. If you have the time to devote to their needs, this breed is a canine worth considering.
See Also:
Featured Image Credit: Kseniia Kolesnikova, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
Can Cats Eat Kale? Vet-Reviewed Nutrition Facts & FAQ
4 Homemade Grain-Free Cat Treat Recipes (Vet Approved)
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Cats
Cats
Info
© All Rights Reserved Hepper 2025
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Irish Setter, also known as the Red Setter, is a breed with a rich history. Its origins can be traced back to Ireland in the 18th century, where it was developed as a versatile hunting dog, specializing in bird hunting and retrieving. The breed's ancestors include the Irish Water Spaniel, Irish Terrier, and possibly the English Setter and Gordon Setter. Over time, the breed's appearance was refined to emphasize its striking red coat and elegant, athletic build. Irish Setters have a luscious, silky coat that is moderately long. The coat is straight and lies close to the body, with feathering on the ears, chest, belly, legs, and tail.
Irish Setters can suffer from hip dysplasia, epilepsy, degenerative myelopathy, autoimmune thyroiditis, inherited blood disorders such as von Willebrand Disease I and Canine Leukocyte Adhesion Deficiency Type I (CLAD I), and eye disorders such as progressive rod-cone degeneration and progressive retinal atrophy.
Irish Setters are eager to please and respond well to positive reinforcement and training. Irish Setters are known for their friendly, outgoing, and affectionate nature. They are highly sociable dogs that thrive on human companionship and are generally good with children and other pets. This breed tends to be energetic and playful, making them excellent family pets. However, they do require regular exercise and mental stimulation to prevent boredom, as they may become destructive if not adequately engaged. They are lively, intelligent and mischevious which may lead them to be chewers, barkers, and diggers if not trained properly.They are typically outgoing and friendly with other dogs and people. Due to their nature as hunters, they have a strong prey drive so care should be taken when introduced to other small animals.
The breed's rich red coat is one of its most striking features, but interestingly, it wasn't always red. The early Irish Setters had more variable coat colors, including black and white. The solid red color became more prevalent as the breed was refined.Irish Setters are known for their boundless energy and athleticism. They excel in various dog sports and activities, such as agility, obedience trials, and of course, hunting trials.The famous 1945 movie "The Bells of St. Mary's" featured a lovable Irish Setter named "Rusty" as one of the main characters, further popularizing the breed.The Irish Setter has a strong sense of smell and is often used as a detection dog for various tasks, including drug detection and search-and-rescue missions.
https://vgl.ucdavis.edu/breed/irish-setter  https://www.ukcdogs.com/irish-setterhttps://www.fci.be/en/nomenclature/IRISH-RED-SETTER-120.htmlhttps://www.hillspet.com/dog-care/dog-breeds/irish-setterhttps://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/irish-setter/https://www.ofa.org/recommended-tests?breed=IR
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
