Cat Breeds
Playful and intelligent, and with an attitude that’s just a touch demanding, the Japanese Bobtail cat is a rare breed with stunning looks, silky fur, and a melodious singsong voice.
If you're lucky enough to bring a Japanese Bobtail cat into your home, you'll have a friend for life. These cats are exceptionally loyal and loving, even though they believe that you live to serve them. They love to follow their favorite people around, meowing and tapping for attention, and bringing toys to ask for games of fetch that can seem to go on forever.
Japanese Bobtail cats are renowned for their friendliness. Many are so outgoing that they will even greet strangers like old friends. They love to be involved in everything, reading the same books you do, playing computer games and surfing the Internet together, and helping you with all of your projects, carrying on a conversation the entire time.
The breed's friendly nature doesn't just extend to humans. These cats typically enjoy the company of other felines and they will readily make friends with dogs, as well.
Most depictions of the Japanese Bobtail cat show the mi-ke color variant, which is pronounced "mee kay." Mi-ke is a unique tricolor pattern (calico) that is normally displayed by female cats.
Even though mi-ke (calico) is the best-known Japanese Bobtail cat color, these cats can be of any shade and pattern including solid colors, van, tabby, and bi-color. Whatever your favorite cat color, it's likely that there's a Japanese Bobtail to match!
Japanese Bobtail cats do not have any special nutritional needs. We recommend offering a high-protein diet without too many carbohydrates. If you are not feeding your cat fresh food, it's best to offer a high-quality commercial brand that incorporates real meat or fish as the number one ingredient.
The Japanese Bobtail cat benefits from occasional brushing, more frequently if the cat has a medium to long coat. This helps cut back on shedding while reducing the likelihood of hairballs.
It's a good idea to teach your cat how to accept nail trimming and toothbrushing from a young age.
Japanese Bobtail cats are incredibly athletic, and will happily spend hours playing. These cats love to run and jump, and they take very well to walking on leashes. They typically enjoy adventures and excel at feline agility eventing.
Because they are so active, Japanese Bobtails really need approved play structures like cat towers and shelves. Cat trees provide a place to climb and scratching posts will save your furniture from damage.
Japanese Bobtail cats typically enjoy great health, and do not have any known genetic disorders specific to the breed.
If you guessed that Japanese Bobtail cats are native to the islands of Japan, you're correct! The first cats to arrive in Japan probably came from China or Korea, sometime around 600 to 700 AD, when Buddhist monks needed help keeping rats out of the rice paper scrolls they used for temple records.
As the bobtail gene became more prevalent, more bobtail cats were seen. During the 1600s, rats plagued Japan's silk industry and cats were released from the temples and tasked with the important job of rodent abatement. All Japanese Bobtail cats trace their heritage back to these incredibly helpful feline assistants.
The first Japanese Bobtails to make their way to the United States arrived in 1968, with the help of Elizabeth Freret. The Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) accepted shorthair Japanese Bobtail cats for championship status in 1976. The longhair Japanese Bobtail cat was granted official recognition much later, in 1993. The International Cat Association (TICA) accepted shorthair Japanese Bobtail cats for competition status in 1979 and the longhair in 1991.
Today, the Japanese Bobtail is recognized by all major registering bodies except the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy.
No two Japanese Bobtail cats have the exact same tail structure. In fact, it has been said that each of these cats have a tail as unique as a fingerprint.
While Japanese Bobtails might not be lap cats, they truly enjoy the company of their favorite people. They like to be close and will often snuggle next to a person on the sofa.
If you have ever noticed a statue of a cat with its paw raised up, you've seen one of the most popular artistic interpretations of the Japanese Bobtail cat. These statues are called maneki-neko (beckoning cat) and are believed to bring good luck.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Japanese Bobtail, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Japanese Bobtail or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Japanese Bobtail, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Japanese Bobtail cats cost between $800-$2,000.
Japanese Bobtail cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Japanese Bobtail cat might weigh between 6-10 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 10"-14" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Japanese Bobtail is 9-13+ years.
Japanese Bobtail are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
I have a stray Japanese Bobtail he is a kitten about 6 weeks old was ferrel he is so funny and smart wish I could send you a picture of him
Hi Ami,
We’ll work on adding that option in the future 🙂
I love my Japanese Bobtail.He’s 4 years old.He’s my Calicos best friend.
Wonderful!
Comme ma chatte race Bobtail japonais
Ma chatte Mystery aiment être proches et se blottissent souvent à côté moi et mon chum sur le canapé et elle aiment grimpent sous les couvertures avec leur compagnon préféré à l’heure du coucher
--------------------------------------------------
The Japanese Bobtail is a breed of domestic cat with an unusual bobtail more closely resembling the tail of a rabbit than that of other cats. The breed was first developed in Japan, and registered officially in the 1960s.[1] The breed has been known in Japan for centuries, and it frequently appears in traditional folklore and art. Japanese Bobtails are believed to be derived from domestic and feral populations of kinked-tailed cats widespread throughout Southeast Asia and southern China.
As in most other breeds, Japanese Bobtails may have almost any color (or colors, arranged in any number of patterns). Predominantly-white calicoes are especially favored by the Japanese and by cat fanciers,[citation needed] and strongly represented in folklore, though other colorations are also accepted by breed standards.
Feral and domestic cats with shortened and kinked tails were first documented in Southeast Asia and southern China long before the development of modern breeds. The kinked tail is highly variable and is a dominant trait. They ranged in appearance from being just slightly shortened (around 25 cm (9.8 in) long), to being seemingly abruptly cut off in the middle (around 10 to 20 cm (3.9 to 7.9 in) long), to being bobtails (less than 10 cm (3.9 in) long). These cats were called "qilin tail" in southern China (after the mythical creature) and were traditional symbols of fortune and wealth. Charles Darwin described the widespread occurrence of this trait in The Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication (1868):  "Throughout an immense area, namely the Malayan archipelago, Siam, Pegu and Burmah, all the cats have truncated tails about half the proper length, often with a sort of knot at the end."[2][3]
A 2016 study has identified that the kinked tails in these cats are the result of a missense mutation of the HES7 gene. It is the same cause of the mutation in Japanese Bobtails, making it likely that the ancestral founder of the Japanese bobtail is originally from Southeast Asia or China and that the bobtail trait already existed prior to their introduction to Japan.[2]
It is unknown when cats were first introduced to Japan, but they likely arrived through multiple introductions from trade with the rest of Asia. It is believed that they first arrived along with Buddhist monks in the 6th century, who kept cats as a means of preventing rats from damaging scrolls made from rice paper. They were initially regarded as luxury goods. The first documented mention of a cat in Japan is from the journal entry of the young Emperor Uda in March 11, 889. He described it as a gift which arrived by boat to his father, the late Emperor Kōkō.[2][4]
In 1602, Japanese authorities decreed that all cats should be set free to help deal with rodents threatening the nation's silkworm population and associated industry. At that time, buying or selling cats was illegal, and from then on, bobtailed cats lived on farms and in the streets. Japanese Bobtails thus became the "street/farm  cats" of Japan.[5]
Around 1701, in Kaempfer's Japan, the first book written by a Westerner about the flora, fauna, and landscape of Japan, German doctor Engelbert Kaempfer (1651 – 1716) wrote, "there is only one breed of cat that is kept. It has large patches of yellow, black and white fur; its short tail looks like it has been bent and broken. It has no mind to hunt for rats and mice but just wants to be carried and stroked by women."
In 1968, Elizabeth Freret is the first known person to have imported the Japanese Bobtail to the Western Hemisphere from Japan.[6] The short hair Japanese Bobtail was accepted for Championship status in the Cat Fanciers' Association in 1976. Recognition for the long hair variety followed in 1993.[6] As of 2013, there are a number of Japanese Bobtail breeders, most of which are based in North America with a few in Europe and at least one in Japan; yet the breed remains rare.
The Bobtail cats are considered to be a lucky breed and to own one promises prosperity and happiness. The tricoloured, Mi-Ke (pronounced 'mee keh')  is known as the luckiest colour for this breed. There is a Japanese statue of a cat with its paw in the air called Maneki Neko (translates to 'beckoning cat') and is an artist interpretation of the bobtail. These statues are common in many Japanese shops as they are thought to attract good people.[7]
The Japanese Bobtail is a recognised breed by all major registering bodies, with the exception of the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF), the domestic registry of the United Kingdom.
This breed is good for families.[5] Due to their affectionate nature, they are well suited pets for children and communicate with people using soft chirpy noises. This breed is highly attracted to water, very smart, and known for playful behavior, always full of energy and mischief. A very loyal breed, Bobtails make great companions.
This breed has a minimal to medium amount of shedding, due to its short fur. Its coat is easy to groom.
Just like any animal, there can be a number of different health problems that could be related to the genetics. This being said, the Japanese Bobtails are generally healthy cats. The recessive gene paired with the shortened tails is not associated with any spinal or bone abnormalities.
The average lifespan for this breed is 9–15 years.[5]
They enjoy climbing and can be prone to obesity.
The short tail is a cat body-type mutation caused by the expression of a dominant gene.  The tail is both shortened and kinked in Japanese Bobtails. The gene is fixed/always homozygous in the breed, so generally all kittens born to even one Japanese Bobtail parent will have bobtails as well. A bobtailed cat that is heterozygous for the gene may have kittens with or without the trait.[9]  Unlike the dominant Manx gene, the Bobtail gene is not associated with skeletal disorders. The Bobtail gene causes a reduced number of tail vertebrae, as well as some fusion of tail vertebrae. This type of tail is not only unique to the breed but also to each individual cat, no two are exactly alike.[10] For it to be considered a true bobtail cat the tail must not exceed three inches from the point of extension to the tailbone.
See also Cat body-type mutation: Tail types
Recent scientific studies on cat genetics led by researchers has indicated that the Japanese Bobtail breed is one of the most genetically diverse of pedigree breeds.[11] Compared with other breeds, Japanese Bobtails tend to have smaller litters with the kittens being proportionally larger at birth and developing at a faster rate. Kitten mortality rates are reported to be comparatively low.[10]
Rarely, a Japanese Bobtail, especially a predominantly white specimen, may have heterochromia, or eyes of different colors. Regardless of breed, cats with this trait are known as odd-eyed cats. In this breed, one iris is blue ("silver" in Japanese breeding terms) while the other is yellow ("gold"). This trait is more common in this breed than in most others, with the notable exception of the Turkish Van.
Generally speaking, members of the breed are active, intelligent cats, with a strongly human-oriented nature, are easier to train to perform tricks than most breeds, and are more likely to enjoy learning human-mediated activities like walking on a harness and leash, and playing fetch. They are very attentive, alert felines that notice a lot.[6] Considered an unusually "talkative" breed, they often interact vocally with people.[6] Their soft voices are capable of nearly a whole scale of tones, leading to a folk belief that they can sing.
Cats are featured prominently in Japanese folklore. As in many other traditions around the world, cats are frequently objects of fear and mistrust, with various supernatural abilities ascribed to them. But in some Japanese stories, the length of their tails is an important plot point, with the Japanese Bobtail seen as auspicious, while long-tailed cats may be suspected of being nekomata, a type of evil spirit.
The maneki-neko ('beckoning cat' or 'inviting cat'), an image of a Japanese Bobtail seated with one paw raised, is considered a good-luck charm among the Japanese around the world, who often keep a statue of this figure in the front of stores or homes (most often a stylized calico, though gold and black variants are also common). This stems from a legend that tells how a man (usually either a priest or member of the royal family) who owned one of these cats looked up one day to see his cat beckoning to him. Thinking the cat might have a message from the gods, he arose and went to it; no sooner had he done so than a branch large enough to kill a man fell where he had been sitting just moments before. Japanese Bobtails also feature prominently in traditional Japanese painting.
One legend of the origin of the breed's short tail, tells of a sleeping cat whose long tail caught fire; it then ran through town, spreading flames everywhere. With the capital in ashes, the Emperor decreed that all cats should have their tails cut short as a preventative measure.[7]
While legends and superstitions may have favored the short-tailed breed, it seems likely that the Bobtail simply has a longer history in Japan than other recognizable breeds. It is also likely to have carried much prestige, having originated on the continent and arrived via Korea in the Asuka period (6th century CE), along with other prized articles of Chinese culture.[7]
The manga character Hello Kitty resembles a Japanese Bobtail, and is an example of contemporary kawaii ('cute') pop culture.[12] The character Muta from The Cat Returns was based on a stray Japanese Bobtail that would often visit Studio Ghibli. They also tend to appear in other anime produced in Japan.
In W Is for Wasted, by Sue Grafton (part of her alphabet mystery series), private investigator Kinsey Millhone and her landlord Henry Pitts acquire a Japanese bobtail and name him Ed. During a fight with a deranged murder suspect, Ed scratches the killer, thereby saving Kinsey from death by scalpel.[13]
Mochi, Hiro Hamada's cat in the Disney film Big Hero 6, is also a Japanese Bobtail.
In illustrator Jey Parks's 2017 book Star Trek Cats, Hikaru Sulu is depicted as a Japanese Bobtail.[14]
The titular cat Good Fortune in the Newbery Medal-winning book The Cat Who Went to Heaven is a tricolor Japanese Bobtail.
Media related to Japanese Bobtails at Wikimedia Commons
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: slowmotiongli, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 24, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
You might notice one prominent trait of the Japanese Bobtail: they have a “rabbit” tail instead of a cat tail! It is one of the most attractive aspects of the breed and is likely why your curiosity was piqued. Interestingly, no two tails on this breed are alike—some are rigid, and some are flexible. But, like our fingerprints, each is unique.
On top of having a very adorable nub, these beautiful cats have just as many wonderful quirks with personality as they do with looks, with a variety of Japanese Bobtail colors to choose from you’ll have a unique cat indeed. Let’s get to know them better!
Length:
8–9 inches
Weight:
6–10 pounds
Lifespan:
9–15 years
Colors:
White, black, red, brown, blue, cream, tortoiseshell, silver, dilute tortoiseshell
Suitable for:
Growing families, apartment living
Temperament:
Highly intelligent, active, affectionate
The Japanese Bobtail is a domestic cat from Japan that has an adorable stubby tail. If you love the look of this cat, you can get to know the Japanese Bobtail’s characteristics throughout this article.
Japanese Bobtails have a rich history dating back to 1,000 years ago. While originally street and farm cats, these are purebreds today, and their price tag reflects that. They have developed into quite a wonderful family companion, sharing their lives with human families.

Few things are cuter than a Japanese Bobtail kitten. If you want to add one of these adorable cuties to your household, you should always buy from a reputable breeder. Once you research online, you can pinpoint breeders around your area.
However, since the breed is relatively rare, you might have to travel or consider shipping. We don’t necessarily recommend shipping due to potential risks, but it is an option with some breeders.
Regardless of your chosen method, you should always select your Japanese Bobtail kitten from healthy, genetically sound cats. Always ask for health testing and expect deposits and kitten contracts. These contracts are put in place to protect the kitty from being rehomed.
Finding a domestic cat that isn’t necessarily a Japanese Bobtail but has the bobbed tail feature is possible. This happens naturally sometimes in a normal litter—so you could find one for cheaper—or even free! Check at local rescues and shelters for options.

The Japanese Bobtail cat is incredibly intelligent and notoriously easy to train. They can easily pick up fundamental concepts, making litter training a breeze! These cats are incredibly athletic, so you can teach them lots of tricks or give them stimulating toys to enhance their mental focus.
These cats tend to be very energetic, so they need an outlet for their vitality. A bored Japanese Bobtail will surely get into trouble. However, if they are in your presence, they will make you laugh because of their clownish antics and playful nature.
It is essential to understand that Japanese Bobtails stay kitten-like for several years of its life. That means you will have a vibrant, energetic kitty in your household. While this isn’t going to be excessive for most people, they do have higher energy levels than some. Always be willing to take them on before purchasing one of these kittens, ensuring you’re compatible.
The Japanese Bobtail is a pretty independent cat. These little felines can be quite feisty and are very brave at heart. Sometimes, these cats are demanding or stubborn. So, if you don’t want them to be on the counter, you can bet they’ll be on the counter. If you try to coax them indoors, they might turn and walk the other way. They definitely have a mind of their own.
The Japanese Bobcat tail can make an excellent addition to any family. These cats work for just about any household, whether relaxed or busy. These cats are exceptional with children, making excellent playmates and cuddle buddies.
They enjoy time spent with their people and require stimulation and attention from owners. While they love interacting with their human companions, they also equally like doing their own thing. So this isn’t the type of cat you’ll have to entertain 24/7.
As with most house cats, your Japanese Bobtail will enjoy having their independence. It is completely up to the individual family whether you will allow your cat access to the great outdoors. Since they are knowledgeable, you can teach them to walk on a leash, much like a dog.
The Japanese Bobtail does amazingly well with other pets in the home. If they are socialized early, they can acclimate to just about any dog or cat. In fact, these playful kitties will adore having another kitty companion to share their days with.
So, if you already have a house cat, this will be a perfect match. But if you’re just now getting your very first kitty, you could get two! However, since these animals have very strong prey instincts, you should keep them away from smaller animals such as reptiles, birds, or rodents.

Your cat is an obligate carnivore, and their diet needs to reflect that. A Japanese Bobtail needs the same nutrition as any other cat. They require a high-quality dry kibble, wet canned food, or a fresh food diet.
While Japanese Bobtails are not prone to any particular allergies or health issues, it can certainly pop up from cat to cat. So be prepared to make any dietary changes if you notice that they are having any type of irritation or allergic reaction to the chosen food. As kittens, they will require a higher amount of protein, so getting a kitten formula is essential. It gives them all the building blocks their bodies need to have a firm foundation in life.
As your Japanese Bobtail enters the adult stage, you can switch to a standard diet containing at least 30 grams of protein per 100 grams of dry matter. These numbers can significantly increase due to life stage or pregnancy.
Your Japanese Bobtail will need quite a bit of exercise, but they take care of most of these needs on their own. This highly energetic breed will always seek something to keep them busy.
On average, most domestic cats need roughly 15 minutes of daily exercise to stay healthy. Your Japanese Bobtail will get this in and much more. They will benefit from having lots of fun things to do around the house, so be sure to get them many enriching toys and other items.
Some ideas include cat scratching posts, cat trees, wall climbs, teaser toys, and so on! You can even get creative and make DIY jungle gyms and in-home contraptions to promote healthy exercise and exciting play.
Training your Japanese Bobtail should be no problem. These brainy cats can pick up almost any concept you want to teach them. So, if you’d like your cat to walk on a leash, you can do so. You can also negotiate if you would like them to do a trick for a treat.
Litter box training should be a breeze. The first time you show your Japanese Bobtail to their litter box, it should be a natural habit that starts up. Since cats naturally want to cover their waste, most cats have no problem with this. That’s one of the many perks of owning these furry companions.
A Japanese Bobtail is not a low-shedding cat. They shed just as much as any other house cat but do most of the grooming themselves. These animals are very clean and take hygiene very seriously. They will spend the majority of their day licking themselves to perfection.
However, sometimes they require a little extra care. If you want to keep your Japanese Bobtail on a schedule, you can bathe them once every 4 to 6 weeks. Indoor-outdoor cats tend to need more frequent bathing than strictly indoor cats.
So always use your discretion and consider your lifestyle. It helps to acclimate your kitty to brushing early in life. That way, they will be used to the process, and it won’t stress them out when it’s time. You can brush your Japanese Bobtail a few times weekly for optimal coat health.
Like most cats, the Japanese Bobtail will love using their claws! To keep your furniture from damage, it’s best to offer lots of cat scratching posts, and you can even trim nails or put on nail covers to cut down the damage possible with these little murder mittens.
The Japanese Bobtail is generally a very healthy cat. However, certain genetic factors play a role. Regular vetting will help you get ahead of any issues that might develop over time.

Males and females can be quite different from one another, and it doesn’t just boil down to personality. Males tend to be bigger than females, with stockier bodies and blockier skulls. Females are a bit more dainty and lanky and typically weigh 3 to 5 pounds less.
Once males and females reach sexual maturity, they can spray. However, males tend to exhibit this behavior more than females. Males might also become territorially aggressive or try to run away to seek out a mate.
Females in heat tend to be highly vocal, excessively affectionate, and exhibit many other peculiar behaviors. To eliminate any gender hormone-based behaviors, we recommend getting your cat spayed or neutered by 6 months of age.

The Japanese Bobtail has a tail much more similar to a rabbit’s than a cat’s. Some Japanese bobtails might even hop to get around due to the tail composition.
Most cats steer pretty clear of water, but not this cat! The Japanese Bobtail is very curious about water, so you should get a running fountain or let the tap water run now and then. You might see this cat trying to invade you during shower time.
While it might be a peculiar behavior, it sure does come in handy for baths!
Heterochromia is the phenomenon of having two different colored eyes. You might see it in dog breeds such as the Australian Shepherd or Husky. While this is less common for cats, the Japanese Bobtail certainly has this phenomenon pop up from litter to litter.

The Japanese Bobtail is certainly an exciting cat that can make a terrific companion to any cat lover. This cat has been around for quite some time and continues to be popular in the purebred cat world due to their wonderful demeanor and sought-after appearance.
Now that you know more about this magnificent feline, you can check with local breeders near you to see if there are any available. Don’t forget that if you’re looking for a cat with a bobbed tail, there are several other naturally occurring tailless kitties, and you may even find tailless kitties in shelters and rescues.
Feature Image Credit: slowmotiongli, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

As a freelance dog writer and passionate pet enthusiast, Ashley Bates is pursuing studies in animal therapy. A mother to four human children and 23 animal companions, Ashley is dedicated to volunteering at shelters, advocating for animal rights, and rescuing animals in need. Her goal is to spread awareness, provide education, and offer entertainment about pets to reduce homelessness. Ashley's specialties include dogs and cats.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The Japanese Bobtail is a captivating and distinctive domestic cat breed known for its unique appearance, charming personality, and cultural significance. Originating in Japan, this breed has a history that spans centuries and is deeply intertwined with Japanese folklore and art. One of the most noticeable features of the Japanese Bobtail is their tail, which is short, flexible, and often resembles a pom-pom. The tail can be expressive, conveying the cat’s mood and adding to its overall allure.
The Japanese Bobtail has deep roots in Japanese culture and folklore. They are often depicted in traditional Japanese art, including ukiyo-e woodblock prints. Additionally, they are associated with good luck and prosperity. They form strong bonds with their human companions and are often good with children and other pets. Their playful and active demeanor makes them enjoyable to have around.
When considering a Japanese Bobtail, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Japanese Bobtail breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
It is said that the first bobtailed cats arrived in Japan as gifts from the emperor of China to the emperor of Japan. They have been known in the island nation for at least 1,000 years. Their short tails were a naturally occurring phenomenon that was then set through selective breeding.
Over the centuries, the cats were not only imperial pets but also guardians of grain supplies and protectors of the lucrative silkworms, both of which were threatened by rodents. Bobtails with a tricolor coat—red and black on a white background—became known as popular symbols of good luck.
Three of the cats were imported into the United States in 1968. By 1976, the shorthaired variety had been recognized by the Cat Fanciers Association. The longhaired Japanese Bobtail did not achieve CFA recognition until 1993. Today the Japanese Bobtail is recognized by all North American registries.
This is a medium-size cat weighing 6 to 10 pounds.
This active and affectionate cat will “talk” to you in a soft, chirpy voice. You will be amazed by the range of his feline vocabulary. He’s not loud at all, but he does have a lot to say and a range of tones in which to say it.
When he’s not telling you about his day or asking about yours, he is very likely carrying around a favorite toy or splashing his paw into your koi pond or aquarium. He likes playing with water, so you may find your faucets turned on or puddles beside his water dish.
The Japanese Bobtail is playful and and smart. He will relish the challenge of a rotating assortment of puzzle toys or the fun of chasing a lure on a fishing pole toy. He is very good at learning tricks and will even walk on a leash if he thinks it’s a fun thing to do. When you are sitting down, though, expect this friendly feline to find a place in your lap.
He is a busy cat and must have companionship—people or another Bobtail would be his first choice—but a dog will do in a pinch to keep him entertained when you are out earning the money for his food and toys. Remember that a bored Bobtail is an amazingly creative Bobtail—and not necessarily in a way that you will appreciate.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Japanese Bobtails are generally healthy, and the recessive gene that produces the bobtail is not associated with any spinal or bone abnormalities. Be sure to ask a breeder about the incidence of health problems in her lines and what testing has been done for any that are genetic in nature.
Urinary Tract Issues: Like many cat breeds, Japanese Bobtails can be susceptible to urinary tract problems, including infections or blockages. Providing a balanced diet and ensuring access to fresh water can help prevent these issues.
Obesity: Maintaining a healthy weight is crucial for overall well-being. Obesity can lead to various health problems, so it’s important to feed your cat a balanced diet and monitor their weight.
Because the Japanese Bobtail has little undercoat, both the shorthaired and longhaired varieties are very easy to groom. Tangles are uncommon, and a weekly combing will remove dead hairs. Both longhairs and shorthairs shed seasonally. The coat is highly water-resistant, so it’s a good thing that a bath is rarely necessary; it takes some doing to get a Japanese Bobtail wet enough to shampoo him.
Always handle the tail gently, especially if it is more rigid than flexible. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the Japanese Bobtail’s litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene. A clean litter box will also help to keep a longhaired Bobtail’s coat clean. It’s a good idea to keep a Japanese Bobtail as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Japanese Bobtails who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
This breed’s tell-tale characteristic, of course, is a short “bunny” tail that can be flexible or rigid, with one or more curves, angles or kinks, ideally extending out from the body no more than three inches. The fur fans out to create the look of a pom-pom on a shorthair, or a blooming chrysanthemum on a longhair. Each cat in the breed has a unique tail.
The Japanese Bobtail is known as well for his tricolor calico pattern—called “mi-ke” meaning three-fur and pronounced “mee-kay”—but other popular colors are black and white or red and white. He also comes in solid colors and tortoiseshell and tabby patterns. Some cat registries permit pointed or sepia-tone coats. Bold, dramatic markings and vividly contrasting colors are a trademark of this breed.
The eyes can be any color, including blue or odd-eyed (each eye a different color). The silky coat can be shorthaired or longhaired. In both lengths, the cats have little undercoat. Longhaired Bobtails may have a ruff around the neck, long fur on the belly, and fur that is noticeably longer on the tail and upper hind legs (britches) than it is on the upper part of the body. Some have tufts of fur on the ears and toes.
He has a slender but muscular body, long, slender legs that are noticeably longer in the rear, although they are angled in such a way that the body remains level rather than rising up toward the rear, and a finely chiseled head with high cheekbones, large oval eyes set at a slant, and large, upright, expressive ears.
The Bobtail is a great match for families with kids because he shares their high energy level. He is up for anything, from playing fetch to being a guest at a tea party to being dressed up in doll clothes and paraded around in a baby buggy. Always  supervise children to make sure they pet and play with the cat nicely and don’t pull his ears or twist his tail. He is happy to live with cat-friendly dogs, too, thanks to his amiable and fearless disposition. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!








Share article
--------------------------------------------------
One of the oldest of all the naturally occurring breeds of cat, the Japanese Bobtail is a native of Japan and first appears in written records more than a thousand years ago. It is generally accepted that the first cats of this breed helped Buddhist monks protect their rice paper scrolls from rats. In Japan, the Bobtail is a street cat and remains a premier mouser. In 1968, Elizabeth Freret imported the first of the breed to the U.S. The short-haired version received championship status in 1976, and the long-haired variant in 1993. There is no relation to the equally short-tailed Manx.

The Japanese Bobtail is a sociable, active breed known for its excellent health.

The Japanese Bobtail is a sociable, active breed known for its excellent health. They like to be with their humans regardless of the activity at hand, sprawling on the couch to watch TV with you, holding down your newspaper, head bonking your book, and even going with you to the door to greet guests. They have a whimsical habit of carrying things in their mouths and are always up for an impromptu game of soccer or fetch. They will rocket through the house playing tag with other cats and are such good jumpers they have proven to be naturals for the relatively new Feline Agility competitions. Some Japanese Bobtails finished the regulation agility course in under 10 seconds and are ready for more.


A Japanese Bobtail’s tail is uniquely his own, and no two tails are alike. The “bunny-like” tail should be no longer than three inches, and can be curved, angled, bumpy, or any combination thereof. Because the gene for the shortened tail is dominant, it breeds true across generations. The Bobtail’s back legs are longer than the front and appear solid and muscular. Upright ears sit on a triangular head and have well-defined right angles. Oval eyes give the face a slightly Oriental cast. In body conformation, the Bobtail is a medium-sized, long cat, with a lean, sturdy quality that does not detract from his confident charm. The Bobtail has a broad vocal range, almost seeming to sing at times, and will always speak when spoken to.

Many colors are present in the Japanese Bobtail breed including solids, calico (mi-ke), van, and bi-color. Tabby, spotted, mackerel, and classic patterns are present and there is both a long and short-haired version. The fur is soft and silky. Predominantly white individuals with calico markings are especially desirable.


Japanese Bobtails with short hair have a medium length coat and no real undercoat. The longer haired variety is only marginally so, but does have a ruff on the chest. Both are easy to groom. Count on brushing and combing twice a week, with an additional session during prime shedding seasons in spring and fall. Since these cats are very fond of riding on their owners’ shoulders, it’s a good idea to keep their nails well trimmed. Bobtails tend to be good about all these maintenance chores, which makes the whole process much easier.

Photo credit: dien/Shutterstock
Amy Tokic, Editor of PetGuide.com, is a passionate animal lover and proud pet parent of Oscar, a Shih Tzu/Chihuahua cross, and Zed, a Japanese Chin. Her love of animals began in kindergarten, when she brought her stuffed dog Snoopy into class with her every day. Now, she writes about her adventures in pet ownership and tirelessly researches products, news and health related issues she can share with other animal enthusiasts. In her free time, Amy loves perusing used book and record stores, obsessing over the latest pet products available and chasing squirrels with wild abandon (a habit attributed to spending too much time with her pooches).
More by Amy Tokic
When you think of a cat, you envision a cute little animal with big round eyes, pointy ears, and a long tail, right? But it turns out that some cats have short tails or no tails at all. Of course, this gives them a unique appearance, but when it comes to their demeanor and other traits, they’re just like other cats. If you’re interested in learning about some of the many tailless cat breeds, keep reading—the following breeds are recognized by The Cat Fanciers’ Association (CFA) and/or The International Cat Association (TICA).
Got a mouse in the house? Forget the mouse trap &ndash; a cat is your best pest buster. Here are the top 10 best cats for mousing.
If you&rsquo;ve ever seen a domestic cat hunt for food, you might wonder how something so cute could be so vicious. And did you know that some breeds even have a history of helping people with rodent control? It&rsquo;s true!
Your little cat might be snuggly with you, but she&rsquo;s a natural born predator, and one of her preferred prey is the mouse. So, for natural pest control, it&rsquo;s tough to beat a frisky feline who loves to hunt.
Some feline breeds are known for their strong motivation to hunt. But it&rsquo;s important to keep in mind that every cat is one-of-a-kind, so two kitties might have different interests when it comes to hunting, even if they&rsquo;re the same breed. In other words, just because you get a cat that has a reputation for being a great mouse hunter doesn&rsquo;t necessarily mean she&rsquo;ll actually do it. Either way, though, your kitty is sure to quickly become your new buddy.
What are some of the best cat breeds for mousing? Here&rsquo;s a list of 10, in no particular order.
 Siberian
(photo credit: Lillya Kulianionak / shutterstock.com)From ugly sweaters to holiday-themed jackets and headgear… if there’s a fun way to incorporate our pets into the holiday season, we’re all in, right? But once you’ve lined up the requisite snap with Santa and ordered those cozy new winter booties for your pet, what next? I mean, we’ve still got weeks to go and are seriously busting to introduce the same sense of joyful anticipation we held as children, to our fur kids.Enter the advent calendar. Nope, not the cardboard versions we used to open in the days leading up to Christmas. Delightfully loaded with cheap chocolate and the thrill of knowing each reveal meant one less sleep before the big day. No, my friend, these advent calendars have been packed with fun treats and toys that will appeal to the four-legged kid in your household whether they be of the canine or feline persuasion.
Dogs jumping on people may seem like a sign of excitement and affection, but it can be problematic, especially for children, elderly individuals, or anyone uncomfortable with an energetic greeting. Fortunately, with the right training and consistency, you can teach your dog to greet people more politely.Why Do Dogs Jump?Jumping is a natural behavior for dogs. Puppies often jump on their mother to get attention, and many dogs continue this behavior with humans. If jumping is reinforced - whether by petting, talking, or even pushing the dog away - it becomes a learned habit. The key to stopping this behavior is to teach an alternative, more acceptable way to greet people.Training Techniques to Prevent JumpingOne of the most effective ways to stop your dog from jumping is to ignore the behavior. Dogs often jump for attention, so turning away, crossing your arms, and avoiding eye contact can teach them that jumping doesn't get the reaction they seek. Instead, reward them only when they have all four paws on the ground. Reinforcing calm behavior with  treats and praise will help them understand what is expected.
(photo credit: Gudman / shutterstock.com)I was raised to believe you shouldn’t bathe a dog because it would deplete the natural oils in their fur and dry out their skin. Back in the day, it was assumed that a dog’s ability to self-groom was sufficient to take care of whatever clean-up they might need.Fast forward, and with dogs sleeping in our beds and snuggling on our sofas, we’re suddenly much more aware of the need to keep our pets well-groomed and yes, smelling fresher.Aesthetics aside, bathing your dog not only allows you to check for ticks, sores, and lumps that shouldn’t be there, but a periodic scrub can also keep his skin and hair, healthy. With some breeds such as Yorkshire Terriers, Cocker Spaniels, Dachshunds, and West Highland Terriers (to name a few), a skin condition called Seborrhea can be common. Yes, just like with humans it’s down to an increased production of skin cells and/or skin oils.When it’s the dry version, you get flaky, scaly skin cells (dandruff) caused by excess keratin production. When oily, you get a waxy substance comes from the sebaceous glands which causes your dog’s coat to look greasy.Whether your pooch falls into the above category or he simply loves to dig, burrow, and roll in whatever he can when given the chance, cleaning him up is something you both deserve.
There are many cat breeds that you can choose from, and some are much more common and easy to find than others, including in shelters and rescues. Rarer cat breeds, such as those listed below, are harder to come by. They might not be as well-known or as popular as other breeds, and there may not be as many breeders as a result. Once you get to know the defining characteristics and features of these breeds, though, you might want to find a way to bring one into your family.
Just like humans, dogs need mental and physical stimulation to stay happy and healthy. Without enough activity, they can become bored, leading to destructive behaviors such as chewing,  excessive barking, apathy, and even anxiety. Preventing boredom is essential for their well-being, and with a few simple strategies, you can keep your dog engaged and content.#1 Provide Sufficient ExerciseOne of the best ways to prevent boredom in dogs is to ensure they get enough exercise. Different breeds have varying  exercise needs, but all dogs require daily walks or playtime. Taking your dog for a walk twice a day, playing fetch in the yard, or letting them run freely at a dog park can help burn off excess energy and keep them engaged. If you have a spacious yard, consider setting up an obstacle course to give your pet a fun and challenging way to stay active.#2 Engage Them with ToysToys are not just for fun — they also provide essential mental stimulation. Puzzle toys that require dogs to work for treats, such as treat-dispensing balls or interactive feeders, are excellent for keeping their minds active. Classic  Kong toys filled with peanut butter or kibble can keep a dog entertained for hours, promoting problem-solving skills and preventing boredom.
Cat parents and researchers alike often wonder what goes on in the minds of felines, and it can be hard to figure out what they’re feeling. Well, scientists have found a new way to record the electrical activity of a cat’s brain while they are awake, and they used adorable crocheted caps to do it.
When you finally wind down after a long day, few sounds are as unsettling, frustrating, and heartbreaking as the sound of your dog whining. We’ve all been there. But before you dismiss it as just your dog being “needy,” remind yourself that whining is a form of communication. It’s your dog’s way of telling you something; ignoring it could mean missing essential cues or messages about their well-being.Whining can stem from a long list of reasons, ranging from simple attention-seeking or a desire for a treat to more complex emotional states, like anxiety or fear. Even more importantly, your dog may be trying to let you know about a serious medical issue. A dog in pain, for example, might whine to express their discomfort.Only by carefully observing your dog’s behavior and considering all possibilities can you effectively respond to their needs and strengthen the bond you share. So, let’s look at the possible reasons for your dog’s whining…Common Physical Reasons for WhiningBefore you start analyzing the situation for the more complex emotional or behavioral explanations, let’s start with the basics. Like humans, dogs have fundamental needs to live a happy, healthy life. They may feel uncomfortable or irritated if these needs are unmet, using their vocalization (whining) to communicate and let you know.If the reason for your dog’s whining is one of these physical triggers, good news – addressing the trigger will usually resolve the problem, allowing your dog to be healthy and content. Here are the most common physical explanations to watch out for:HungerYour dog might whine to let you know that they are hungry. This is especially true if it’s near their regular mealtime. Despite not being able to read a clock, they do have an internal clock that can be pretty accurate – especially when it comes to their stomachs! Some dogs will whine even if their bowl isn’t completely empty out of habit or anticipation.This could also be a response to seeing something that looks tasty. For example, if you recently purchased their favorite treats and left the bag sitting somewhere visible or if your dog can see and/or smell your recently cooked meal sitting on the kitchen counter. Your pup isn’t necessarily hungry in these situations, but they are still trying to communicate that they would love to eat whatever they are eyeing up.ThirstyAccess to fresh, clean water is essential. If you’ve ever been thirsty, you know the discomfort of dry mouth. Now imagine experiencing that and having no ability to get a drink to relieve it. Check your dog’s water dish to ensure they haven’t run dry. If you’re struggling to keep up with that, consider using a pet water fountain or a gravity-fed water dish.Need to Do Their “Business”When you’ve got to go, you’ve got to go! If your pet is experiencing a full bladder or bowel, it can be very uncomfortable. Regular potty breaks are crucial, especially for young puppies during the potty-training process and for seniors in their golden years. But pay attention to your dog’s bathroom habits. If you notice an increase in their urgency and whining, that could indicate a medical issue like a UTI.Discomfort or PainWhining could be a sign that your dog is experiencing pain from injuries, arthritis, or other medical conditions. For example, a dog with hip dysplasia or severe arthritis may whine when standing up, while a dog with a stomach ache might whine and pace, unable to get comfortable.While no one wants to see their dog in pain, recognizing this can be a positive thing as it’s the first step to finding a solution and giving your best friend some much-needed relief. Keep an eye open for other signs of discomfort like limping, licking, or changes in appetite or behavior. If you suspect your dog is in pain, contact your veterinarian as soon as possible.Emotional and Psychological Reasons for WhiningBeyond physical needs, your dog’s emotional and mental state significantly affect their happiness and well-being. Our dogs experience a range of emotions, from joy and excitement to anxiety and frustration. Understanding these emotions allows us to interpret and respond appropriately to this form of communication.Sometimes, the root cause of a whine may lie in a simple desire for connection. Other times, it could signal something deeper, like anxiety or fear, that will require you to take steps to make them feel more secure.Attention-SeekingA dog’s whine may simply be a plea for your attention. Whether it’s a desire for play, petting, or just a moment of interaction, dogs learn that whining generally triggers a response from their owners, increasing the chance of getting what they want. For example, my boy Lucifer loves to lay at my feet when I’m working and whine when he wants me to stop working and pay attention to him.When addressing attention-seeking whining, the key is positive reinforcement. Avoid rewarding the behavior by giving in to their demands, as tempting as it may be, as this will only reinforce the habit. Instead, try to redirect their attention to more appropriate activities. For example, you may teach your dog that offering a toy will lead to play sessions, not whining to play. Or, you could use talking buttons to help your dog communicate what they want with buttons like “Play” or “Cuddle.”ExcitementHave you ever returned home after a long day at work to your dog whining at the door as you turn the key? Dogs often whine when anticipating something positive, such as preparing for a walk or greeting a familiar person. This type of whining is usually paired with other signs of excitement, like rapid tail wagging, jumping, and playful barking.This form of whining is generally harmless, but it’s important to manage the level of excitement to prevent excessive vocalization. Allowing your dog to react with overexcitement like this may allow the situation to escalate, and over-excitement is a very real type of reactivity!Anxiety and FearOf all the mental and emotional causes for whining, this one is particularly important to address. Why? Your dog is telling you that they are experiencing fear and anxiety, and they need your support.Common anxiety triggers include loud noises like fireworks or thunderstorms, separation anxiety when left alone, or fear of unfamiliar people or places. Watch out for other signs of fear or anxiety, like excessive panting, lip-licking, shaking/trembling, attempting to hide, or tucking their tail between their legs.Managing fear and anxiety requires a multifaceted approach. Create a safe and comfortable space for your dog using calming aids, like a pheromone diffuser or calming music. Make sure this space is quiet and as far from any potential triggers as possible. You may also want to consider calming products like a Thundershirt (you can even make your own) or calming chews. If your dog struggles despite your best efforts, I recommend consulting a behaviorist or veterinarian for more personalized advice.FrustrationDogs may also whine when they’re feeling frustrated. This can happen when they can’t reach a toy, if they are confined in a small space, or if they are unable to access something they desire. The easy solution to these problems is obviously to address the source of their frustration, like getting the toy or letting them out of the crate, but that’s not always possible.You can help to reduce frustration by offering your dog plenty of mental stimulation and enrichment, giving them a positive outlet for their energy. Puzzle toys, interactive games, and regular training sessions are all great ways to keep your dog mentally engaged and reduce feelings of frustration.
Think doggie daycare meets petting zoo and you&#39;ll get the picture.
When you combine high energy levels with clumsiness – or simple lack of cautiousness – you get your average dog’s personality. It’s no secret that canines are usually very playful and can easily get themselves in trouble because of it, but sometimes silly accidents can have greater consequences, such as a head injury. If your pet has bumped their head during rambunctious playtime, you might be worrying about a potential concussion. To cut things short, yes, dogs can get a concussion, but not every little head injury will cause one – read on for more details, symptoms, and advice on how to best handle things when your dog hits their head.Can Dogs Get Concussions? Symptoms, Causes, And TreatmentIf a dog hits their head, they can get a concussion – if the blow is a bit more severe, it can cause the brain to move rapidly within the skull, leading to a concussion. Depending on how hard the dog hit his head, there can be a variety of symptoms and consequences of a concussion. To ensure the best outcome for your four-legged friend, it is important that you know how to treat a concussion, how your pet is affected, and what symptoms to watch out for. There are numerous ways in which a dog can get a concussion. Commonly, these are falls and collisions, often during high speed running. A dog may fall from a moderate height, for example from a staircase, from the bed, or a small ledge. Similarly, they can run very fast and accidentally collide with a stationary object, such as a table leg or a wall. Of course, they can also be injured in car accidents, whether in or outside of a car. A sudden jolt or a hard impact can quickly lead to a concussion. It is one of the reasons why it’s important to follow safety precautions when driving with your dog and use a  crash-tested car harness for dogs to minimize the effect of sudden braking or collision. Lastly, a dog can injure its head when fighting another animal or is hit with something hard – a falling branch, a rock, or a ball.
(Photo credit: Nadia Cruzova / Shutterstock.com)While my Schnoodles aren’t exactly small dogs, they are a little shorter than one might consider to be medium-sized. And as they get older and can’t launch themselves onto my bed with anything close to a modicum of dignity, it’s clear they need a little assistance. In short (no pun intended), I’m thinking stairs that are configured for dogs with slightly shorter legs are in order.To be clear, I don’t mind lifting them up and onto the bed. However, my one pooch gets restless at night and, within 20 minutes, wants to jump down. It’s hard on her joints and is sleep-defying for me as she paces back and forth across my bed looking for that single sweet spot on the floor where she can comfortably land.What to do? Everyone told me to buy a set of those soft dog steps so they can easily ascend and descend. Now, it sounds like a no-brainer, yet I kept hearing from other pet parents that their dogs refused to use them. For me, that means I’m about to start searching for something that isn’t too daunting for my gals to use.Narrowing Down the OptionsWas I looking for plush steps? Or something harder that might offer a greater sense of stability. Maybe a ramp or “ladder” style design? And did I want something I could fold up and tuck under the bed to save space? What about that sloped design that looks like a ramp/step combo? So many options.For dogs unable to jump up but are still cool with stairs, one of the multi-step options might be the golden ticket. I’m thinking it might be a more natural transition for them than say a ramp.
Is your once-playful pup turning into a snarling toy hoarder? Do they become possessive anytime your family or other pets come near their favorite squeaky toy?Dog aggression over toys can range from mild guarding to full-blown attacks. It’s a common problem – one that can be frustrating and sometimes scary to experience. The best thing you can do for your furry friend is to tackle the issue as soon as you notice the first signs of trouble.In this guide, I’ll share tips and tricks to turn your toy-obsessed pup into a more social and relaxed companion. It’s not easy and won’t be solved overnight, but it is possible!Understanding Resource GuardingResource guarding is a common behavior that many dog parents struggle with. It happens when a dog protects a resource they see as valuable from a perceived threat. This is a deeply rooted survival instinct, ensuring they have access to the resources needed to meet their basic needs. While this describes the reason for the behavior, it can become problematic if it escalates to aggression.Common triggers for resource guarding include food, toys, bones, bedding, and specific locations within the home. Dogs may also guard people, especially “their person.”The intensity of resource guarding can vary wildly. Some dogs will exhibit mild displays of possessiveness. Mild resource guarding may involve growling, snapping, or posturing when a person or other animal approaches the resource.However, others will display severe aggression to protect what they see as theirs. This can involve aggressive biting and can pose a serious risk to others. Recognizing the signs of resource guarding and taking appropriate steps to address the issue before it escalates is crucial.Preventing and Managing Toy AggressionOnce you have identified that your dog is exhibiting toy aggression, it’s time to take proactive steps to prevent and manage this behavior. After all, we all want to create a safe and happy living environment for our dogs and the rest of the family. The earlier you address the issue, the easier it will be to modify your dog’s behavior.In the following sections, I’ll offer strategies and techniques to help you prevent and manage toy aggression that I have learned over my many years fostering rescue dogs. By understanding the underlying reasons for this behavior, managing the behavior to prevent trouble short-term, and training for long-term success, you can effectively address this common problem.Early Socialization and TrainingOne of the most effective ways to prevent resource guarding is through early socialization and training, which is excellent news if you’re bringing a young puppy home!Expose your young pup to various people, animals, and environments from a young age. This will help them develop positive associations with different triggers and situations, ultimately reducing their fear and anxiety. It will help them be more comfortable in unknown situations instead of making them feel like they have to step up and protect themselves and their treasured belongings.Positive Reinforcement TechniquesChoosing the right approach to training is almost as important as the training process itself. Positive reinforcement is a powerful training method that rewards desired behaviors and creates positive associations.When your dog displays calm and relaxed behavior around their toys, reward them with treats, praise, or playtime. In time, your dog will begin associating sharing with positive things, reducing the likelihood of aggressive behavior.Why specifically positive reinforcement? Punishing or scolding your dog for guarding their toys can escalate their anxiety, making the problem worse.Basic Obedience CommandsIn addition to focusing on training specifically related to your dog’s resource guarding behaviors, you should continue working on obedience training. Many basic commands, such as “drop it” and “leave it,” will help you manage these situations.Throughout this training, the goal is to convince your dog to trade for something better. Practice these commands regularly, starting with having your dog leave low-value items in exchange for treats. As they show they are more willing to make the trade, gradually progress to higher-value items like toys.You can effectively prevent and manage their resource guarding by teaching your dog to hand over or drop items on cue.Desensitization and CounterconditioningAn extension of your dog’s training, desensitization and counterconditioning are powerful techniques used to help your dog overcome their fear and anxiety. As these feelings can trigger resource guarding or make a situation involving resource guarding even worse, they are important to acknowledge and address.If you have a dog who can share with others in some situations and not others, you will need to find the reason why. If your dog is in a situation where they are feeling fearful, they are more likely to try to feel the need to protect their belongings.  These techniques involve gradually exposing your dog to their triggers while maintaining a calm and relaxed environment. These exposures are paired with positive reinforcement, such as treats or praise, to create positive associations and teach them that the trigger does not need to be feared.For example, if you have a small dog afraid of large dogs, you may start by standing across a field from larger dogs while rewarding your dog for staying calm. Over time, you can slowly close the gap between them while praising and rewarding them for calm behavior. Eventually, your dog will be able to be close to larger dogs without feeling nervous or afraid because the emotions they feel when seeing them have been rewired – feeling excitement for the rewards they know they will receive instead of fear.When you have successfully worked through this process, your dog will no longer feel the need to guard their toys just because a larger dog comes near.Try Calming Products to Reduce Anxiety For dogs who experience heightened anxiety or stress, calming products can help them feel more relaxed temporarily while you work toward a longer-term solution. Calming treats infused with natural ingredients like chamomile or valerian root can help soothe your dog and promote relaxation. Another option is to use pheromone diffusers or sprays to mimic the calming pheromones that dogs naturally produce. These chemical signals tell the brain they are safe and secure, helping them feel calmer and relaxed in their surroundings. This can help prevent situations from escalating into something serious. For more severe cases of anxiety, I recommend consulting with your veterinarian about the potential benefits of CBD products specifically formulated for dogs.
February is designated as National Pet Dental Health Month, but the truth is that your pet’s oral health should be something you focus on every month of the year. Periodontal disease (gum disease) affects a surprising number of dogs, including those who are young, and other dental problems, like chipped or broken teeth, can also arise.
(Photo credit: Lunja / Shutterstock.com)Young or old, big or small...regardless of the breed, all dogs love visiting a leash-free park where they can move at their own pace. For me, my Schnoodles love the idea of a dog park, but once we arrive, they tend to stick like glue and walk at a slower pace beside (or often behind) me. They’re not afraid of getting lost – they know the trails of our regular haunt inside out – but the idea of running and frolicking seems to have disappeared into the ether the moment they jumped out of the car.Whether you live with a large, highly active dog that needs a hard run to burn off energy or like me, a smaller, older pet that needs a little more incentive to come out of their shell, we’ve found eight different motivators that are sure to maximize your time in a leash-free zone.
This beloved caramel-colored canine is truly having his moment in the sun.
Being a pet parent is a rewarding experience, but it can also be a costly one. From buying necessities like food to annual vet visits and vaccinations, it adds up quickly.One area where pet parents often try to save money is on medication. Online pet pharmacies have been growing in popularity as a convenient and potentially cost-saving solution. However, before you jump to make the switch, you must weigh the pros and cons. Why are many pet professionals cautioning against these websites?To help you make an educated decision for your best friend, I will discuss the benefits and drawbacks of buying a pet’s medication online. Plus, I’ll share some key factors to consider when deciding where to fill your pet’s next subscription.What are Online Pet Pharmacies?Before we start talking about the finer details of why you should (or shouldn’t) consider using an online pet pharmacy, let’s take a step back to start at the beginning. What are they and what do they offer to pet parents?Online pet pharmacies are online retailers that sell medications and other pet care products. They operate as an online alternative to traditional brick-and-mortar pet stores and veterinary clinics, allowing pet parents to purchase medications and supplies from home to be delivered to their door. These pharmacies often carry a wide range of pet-related products, including prescription medications, flea and tick treatments, heartworm preventatives, and nutritional supplements.One of the reasons that online pet pharmacies are gaining so much attention is the potential for cost savings. However, it’s important to note that not all these websites are trustworthy. Some have even been found to sell counterfeit or expired products! This is why it’s so important to have this discussion.Benefits of Using Online Pet PharmaciesOnline pet pharmacies offer a convenient and efficient way to manage your pet’s needs and stay on top of their healthcare. By allowing you to shop online, they help streamline your pet’s medication routine while providing access to a wide range of products at the click of a button.Here are a few reasons why you may want to consider picking up your pet’s medications online:Cost SavingsOne of the most significant benefits of using online pet pharmacies is the potential to save a little money. Times are hard and people are struggling – I get it! These pharmacies often offer lower prices on a wide range of medications compared to traditional brick-and-mortar locations.First, online pharmacies typical have lower overhead costs than traditional pharmacies and vet clinics. They don’t have to maintain a physical location, which means they don’t have to worry about rent, utilities, and staffing. This cost savings can be passed onto you in the form of lower prices.Second, online pharmacies often buy the medications from the manufacturers in bulk, allowing them to negotiate lower prices. By buying larger quantities, they can score better deals. These savings allow them to offer the medications at lower prices.ConvenienceOnline pet pharmacies are more convenient than traditional brick-and-mortar options. With just a few clicks, you can easily order your pet’s medication from the comfort of your own home. This eliminates the need to take a trip to your vet clinic or local pharmacy, with the medications instead being delivered right to your front door.Another convenient feature is the option for autofill. Most online pharmacies allow you to set up autofill, ensuring your pet’s medication is automatically shipped to your door before they run out. This eliminates the hassle of reordering prescriptions and ensures you’re never in a position where you don’t have their needed dose available.Wide SelectionThese online pharmacies offer a wider selection of mediations than traditional brick-and-mortar options. This is because they can tap into a larger network of suppliers, allowing them to source products from around the world.This selection can be particularly helpful for pet owners with specific needs, such as those with rare conditions or allergies. In addition to a wider variety of common medications, may of these online pharmacies also offer specialty and hard-to-find medications that are not readily available in most brick-and-mortar locations.
A team of Chinese researchers is coming forward with some really exciting claims in the field of biology. Even though it might sound unreal, their latest  study suggests that when you look at your dog – or into their eyes – you can actually synchronize your brains. This complex research was undertaken in China, where they say that “neural coupling” between two different species was witnessed for the first time in history. This process happens when the brain activity of two or more individuals aligns during an interaction. In some ways, amongst humans, this is often the response to a gripping story in a conversation.Before this, neural coupling had only been seen in two members of the same species. Most commonly it was observed in humans and other primates, but also in mice and bats. Scientists agree that this “linking of brains” is likely important for shaping responses during social encounters. It is said that such behavior cannot occur in isolation and is thus essential for enhancing same-species cooperation.So, with these new surprising results, many questions pop up. For one, is the relationship between dogs and humans as simple as we previously thought? Or can we coexist on a much deeper level?After all, one of the very first animals that humans domesticated in history was the dog. That counts for a whole lot of shared history, numbering in hundreds of thousands of years. This means that dogs are much more than pet companions. Instead, they have a shared place in our society and history, and many uses that are vital to our existence, even today. All of this means that dogs have developed a set of intriguing skills throughout those centuries, including the ability to accurately understand our emotions. Using special equipment and processes, such as non-invasive electroencephalography (EEG), researchers in China were able to observe the neural signals transmitted from a beagle dog and a human, in a shared interaction. Much to their surprise, when dogs and humans would gaze into each other’s eyes, and when dogs were stroked in the process, their brain signals would synchronize. And the brain patterns associated with attention were suddenly matched in both human and dog.And as the participants got to know each other, the brain patterns only got stronger and more accurate. This means that the depth of the relationship between man and dog is very important for synchronization. Of course, it is well known that dogs are able to form strong relationships, especially with humans. This could be just one of the many ways that they do this – that we know of, that is!
--------------------------------------------------
