The Kerry Blue Terrier (also known as the Irish Blue Terrier) (Irish: An Brocaire Gorm) is a breed of dog.[1] Originally bred to control vermin including rats, rabbits, badgers, ferrets, foxes, otters, hares, deer, and even wolves, over time the Kerry became a general working dog used for a variety of jobs including herding cattle and sheep. Despite a Kerry Blue winning Crufts (the most prestigious UK dog show) in 2000,[2] it remains an "unfashionable" breed,[3] and is distinctly uncommon; however, it is not as threatened as some of the other terrier breeds such as the Skye Terrier, Sealyham Terrier, and Dandie Dinmont Terrier.
Some characteristics of the Kerry Blue Terrier include a long head, flat skull, deep chest, and a soft wavy-to-curly coat that comes in several shades of "blue", the general term outside this breed being progressive grey. Puppies are born black; the blue appears gradually as the puppy grows older, usually up to 2 years of age. The male Kerry Blue is usually 46–48 cm (18–19 in) tall at the withers and weighs 12–15 kg (26–33 lb), while the female is usually 44–46 cm (17–18 in) and 10–13 kg (22–29 lb).[1]
The coat is the key feature of the Kerry. It is soft and wavy with no undercoat. The texture feels like a combination of fine human hair and wool.  It does not shed but continues to grow throughout the year. This means the Kerry Blue requires very regular grooming (at least once per week) and clipping an average of every 6 weeks.[4]
Kerry Blue Terriers are strong-minded and highly spirited. They have always been loyal and affectionate towards their owners and very gentle towards children but were often considered hostile toward other animals, including other dogs.[citation needed] If they are socialised with other dogs this is no longer the case.[citation needed] In the early days of competitive dog showing, the Irish Kennel Club required Kerries had to pass a "gameness" test, known as Teastas Mor certification, before they were deemed worthy of being judged.[5] These tests included catching rabbits and bringing a badger to bay in its set.  They are fast, strong, and intelligent, and they do well in obedience, dog agility, sheep herding, and tracking.[citation needed] They have been used as police dogs in Ireland. Modern breeders have attempted to retain high spirits whilst breeding out aggression.[citation needed]
Spiculosis is a painful condition that causes follicular hyperkeratosis.[6][7] This condition is only found in the Kerry Blue Terrier.[8] The breed is predisposed to footpad keratosis and hair follicle tumors.[8]
A 2024 UK study found a life expectancy of 12.4 years for the breed compared to an average of 12.7 for purebreeds and 12 for crossbreeds.[9]
The first literary reference to probably the Kerry Blue dates to 1847, when the author describes a dog that is bluish slate in colour, marked with darker blotches and patches, and often with black about the legs and muzzle.[10] The Kerry Blue Terrier was first observed in the mountains of Kerry in Ireland, hence the name of the breed.[4]
There is a romantic story of a blue dog swimming ashore from a shipwreck: the coat of this dog was so lovely that it was mated with all the female Wheaten Terriers in Kerry (or in all Ireland, according to some), producing the Kerry Blue. Perhaps this story is not entirely myth, as the Portuguese Water Dog is often suggested as part of the Kerry's makeup. Others suggest the Kerry was produced by the Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier crossed with the Bedlington Terrier with (or without) some Irish Wolfhound or Irish Terrier blood. The extinct Gadhar herding dog is also mentioned as another possible branch of the Kerry's family tree. The breed became very popular as an all-around farm dog in rural Ireland.[citation needed]
With the development of dog shows in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the breed became standardised and "tidied up" for the show ring. The Irish nationalist leader Michael Collins owned a famous Kerry Blue named Convict 224. Collins even made an attempt to have the Kerry Blue adopted as the national dog of Ireland.[11]
The first show of the Dublin Irish Blue Terrier Club took place outside official curfew hours and was entered both by those fighting for and against an Irish republic. The Dublin Irish Blue Terrier Club was so successful it led directly to the foundation of the Irish Kennel Club, and a Kerry Blue was the first dog that club registered.[citation needed]
--------------------------------------------------
By: 			Author Emer Walker
Posted on Last updated: October 4, 2023
The Kerry Blue Terrier is one of the nine officially recognised dog breeds from Ireland.
Not only is this breed very striking, it is also very intelligent and has been a useful dog around the farm for generations.
What I find particularly fascinating with this dog is its strong links to Irish nationalism and the establishment of the Irish Kennel Club.
Did you known that this dog breed almost most became the national dog of Ireland, but a strange twist of fate stopped that from happening?
Discover more about this breed in this really in depth guide, which covers the breed characteristics as well as the interesting history behind the Kerry Blue Terrier.
This article may contain affiliate links. If you click on one of these we may receive a small commission at no extra cost to you. Thank you for your support.
Table of Contents
A Kerry Blue is a breed of terrier that originally comes from Ireland.
Famed for the bluey hue of its soft, dense, wavy coat, this medium sized dog has a striking profile.
It was bred as a hunting dog, but was highly valued as an all-round resourceful farm dog in rural Ireland.
This breed started to come to prominence towards the latter half of the 19th century and relatively quickly gathered a fancier following not only throughout Ireland, but also in the UK and the United States.
Today, the Kerry Blue is considered a vulnerable native Irish breed by the Irish Kennel Club.

Kerry Blue Terriers are sometimes known by other dog names as “Irish Blue Terriers”, “Kerry Blues” or even just  “Kerries” for short. In Irish, the Kerry Blue Terrier is known as Brocaire Gorm.
Thanks to its skill at hunting rabbits, this breed also earned its name as a “Blue Devil” or “Gray Ghost”.
Sometimes the breed is incorrectly referred to as “Carrie Blue Terriers” or “Carrie Terriers”.
Need some inspiration for the name of your Kerry Blue Terrier? When not opt for an authentic Irish dog name?
We have lots of special names for male dogs, as well as great female dog names.



The Kerry Blue Terrier is one of four Irish terrier dog breeds from Ireland. The other three terrier breeds are:
Other dog breeds from Ireland include the giant Irish Wolfhound and Kerry Beagle hound.
There are also three gun dogs or sporting dogs which are the water-loving Irish Water Spaniel, the well known Irish Setter and the less well known Irish Red and White Setter.

Kerry Blue Terriers dogs are typically between 45-49 cm (18-19.5 inches), while bitches are usually slightly smaller in size (44-48 cm or 17-19 inches). Some individuals are bigger than the breed standard outlined above.

While several factors including age and gender will play a role in the weight of a dog, on average the Kerry Blue Terrier weight is about 15-18 kg (33 – 40 lbs) for male dogs.

The Kerry Blue is a medium sized, muscular dog with balanced movement and proportions.
A well groomed Kerry Blue tends to make a striking appearance. Firstly you will notice a swanky beard on the face of the Kerry Blue, the longer hair here is a nod to the breed’s hunting past, when the hair may have acted to help protect the eyes and more vulnerable facial features from attacks from animals such as badgers.
The Kerry Blue eyes are small, brown and ever watchful. Naturally, the Kerry Blue Terrier’s  v-shaped ears fall to the sides of the head. To achieve the desired folded look, show dogs typically have their ears glued for lengths of time as a puppy to train them into the desired ear carriage in the folded down position.
These dogs have well proportioned necks and strong backs that are not too long and definitely not low slung.
In terms of movement, these dogs are agile and sporty, as one would expect from such a hunting dog.

The dog Kerry Blue is famous for its coat. Soft with a “Marcel” wave structure and dense enough to repel water, the single coat of the Kerry Blue Terrier is wonderful to feel and touch.
In fact, the pleasing tactile nature of the Kerry Blue coat is one of the reasons why these terriers are used as therapy dogs.
The breed has a single coat with no undercoat. The characteristic rows of silky waves should not be curly or too tight according to the breed standard.
To avoid getting matted, the coat of this dog needs a high amount of maintenance.

Once the final color of the Kerry Blue Terrier’s coat appears by around 18 months. The blue Kerry terrier coat can be in a range of shades from bluey-silver and bluey-gray to darker slate blue colors.

Kerry Blue Terrier puppies are born with black coats. As they mature, their coats gradually change color or “clear” to the bluey tones that give this dog its name. The entire process can take up to a year and a half.
Some people have remarked about the striking similarities between Kerry Blue Terrier pups and Irish Wolfhound pups in their first few weeks.
While there is only limited genetic evidence to suggest that they may be in some way related, it is certainly not beyond the realm of possibility that some sort of crossing occurred at some stage in their distant past.

The Irish Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier is probably the closest related dog to the Kerry Blue Terrier.
They both share a common ancestry and were used in rural Ireland by the working farmers and not the wealthy gentry as practical working dogs.
The Portuguese Water Dog also has some similarities to this breed.
This has given rise to the legend of one such dog surviving the sinking of a Portuguese fishing boat that sank off the Irish coast, which went on to sire many offspring in Ireland.
Similar stories have been suggested with dogs surviving shipwrecks from the Spanish Armada ships or even a Russian vessel, but there is not much evidence to back up these claims.

Owners of Kerry Blue Terriers must be prepared to invest time, energy and money in the care and upkeep of their not so low maintenance dog.
As with all dogs, the Kerry Blue needs regular teeth brushing, nail clipping and their ears must be checked to ensure they are healthy. That is the easy part!

In order to keep the impressive wavy coat of the Kerry Blue in good condition, the coat practically needs daily brushing (at the very least, the coat should be brushed twice a week).
The dog does not shed hair, which has certain advantages (especially if living in a smaller home or apartment), but the trade off is that these dogs need a full grooming every 6-8 weeks.
It can be costly to send the dog to a professional dog groomer each time, so it may be worth your while how to correctly groom your dog by yourself.
The beard of the Kerry Blue also needs to be washed regularly to remove trapped dirt and food, which may make it smell.

The single coat of the Kerry Blue Terrier does not shed and is considered to be hypoallergenic and mostly suitable for people with allergies.
If you do suffer from allergies, it is always best to consult a veterinary specialist about what breeds of dog may be suitable to your requirements.

Kerry Blue Terriers are healthy dogs who can live to the good old age of about 16 years. Typically this breed has a life expectancy of somewhere between 12-16 years.


The breed is considered to be a healthy one, but there are some potential health problems that all owners should be aware of.
Kerry Terriers can suffer from skin issues such as cysts, skin tumors and other forms of dermatitis.
Male Kerry Blue Terriers and older females are also prone to a rare congenital skin condition known as spiculosis, which has hard spiking hair follies, some of which may be in gown or become infected.
Progressive neuronal abiotrophy (PNA), otherwise known as cortical abiotrophy (CCA) or cerebellar abiotrophy (CA) can occur in this dog breed.
Although it is rare, this genetic neurological disease, which typically starts to show itself before 16 weeks in Kerry Blue Terriers, is fatal.
Kerry Blue Terrier owners are advised that the dogs are checked for hip dysplasia and eye problems.

Kerry Blue Terriers require good quality dog food, typically divided into two portions a day when younger than a year and one meal a day when they are older. Dry food generally works best for this breed.
The amount of food your dog will need can be influenced by different specific factors.
These include the sex of the animal, their age and the amount of activity that the animal receives as well.
Clean, fresh water should always be available to ensure the dog does not dehydrate.
When giving treats as training rewards, be careful not to be overly generous or this could lead to your dog having problems with their weight.
It is always best to get the opinion of a vet to make sure that your dog is getting the right amount of the correct food type.

While Kerry Blue Terriers have lots of energy, they usually require an average amount of exercise of about an hour a day.
The best way to reach this daily target is through walks and games that help to stimulate their minds.
In comparison to similar other dogs, such as the Fox Terrier, Kerry Blue Terriers need slightly less exercise activity.
To ensure that the Kerry Blue Terrier does not dig or jump its way to freedom from a backyard, be sure that the fence is high enough and that the dog cannot dig beneath it.
These intelligent dogs can be clever escape artists, especially if they are bored!
Mentally stimulating canine sports that Kerry Blue Terriers excel at include agility trials, herding, obedience, barn hunt and dock diving.
A well balanced dog that gets the necessary amount of exercise, will be happy to relax in the evenings with their owner and family and not cause a fuss.

As with other hunting terriers with a strong prey drive, it is best to have your Kerry Blue on a leash at all times in public areas.
Any small animal that may catch the dog’s attention is at risk of being chased.
Due to the fact that this breed does not overly mix well with other dogs and may be aggressive, dog parks are not the best place to bring Kerry Blues.

Unlike many other terrier breeds, Kerry Blue Terriers do like to swim and are quite adept at this sport.
In the past, Kerry Blue Terriers abilities of swimming and hunting were frequently put to the test to hunt otters. This was a task that they were apparently very good at doing.

Smart, quick to learn, moody and a bit sensitive to harsh criticism sums up the traits that people should keep in mind when training a Kerry Blue Terrier.
These dogs are very trainable, but they also have their dog training challenges so require the right owner to keep them on track.
Persistence with training and consistency in training style and the commands make life easier for both the owner and the dog.
Training Kerry Blue Terriers from an early age is essential to ensure that the dog is well balanced and not unruly. Socialization with other dogs, as well as children from an early age also helps them to develop their character in a well rounded way.
These dogs tend to get bored easily. Repeating the same exercise over and over again will not bring you very far in relation to training progress, so it is good to keep training sessions innovative, short and fun.
Positive reinforcement is very important with this breed, as the dogs can respond negatively or even aggressively to overly harsh or strict punishment.
Investing in an obedience class with a trainer who has previously worked with terriers is also a worthwhile consideration.
Bonus Tip: Training dogs also means making sure that they are used to traveling in cars.
By starting early, you can get the Kerry Blue pups used to the motion which may help them from getting frequently car sick later in life.

Kerry Blue Terriers were bred as versatile farm animals. This can still be seen in the wide range of skills that they demonstrate in canine sports.
As one of the very few terriers that is able to compete in herding trials, the Kerry Blue Terriers can perform well in these types of trials.
There are also a range of different types of obedience trials that these dogs are also good at.
Earthdog trials are only suitable for smaller dogs, but there are similar alternatives such as barn hunt trials that are open to Kerry Blue Terriers.
These can appeal to the natural prey instincts, as well as agility and speed found in the Kerry Blue Terrier breed.

Without proper training from an early age, Kerry Blue Terriers are prone to barking very frequently. They are easily visually stimulated and always alert.
If you want to train them as a guard dog, you need to ensure that they only bark when there is a threat.
Not simply because they feel like it. Well trained Kerry Blue Terriers only bark when there is a reason to do so.

Kerry Blue Terriers are confident, spirited and have incredible drive.
They are loyal companions and generally good with children, but without the necessary training and socialization can be quite a handful.

Kerry Blue Terriers are energetic, high-spirited dogs, who are confident and have a strong independent streak.
As faithful companions, they will happily join you for a walk, run or even swim, but they will also curl up beside you and enjoy some relaxing time together.
They can tend to be a bit scrappy with other dogs and have a strong prey drive, so small animals in the vicinity beware.
They respond well to training, but can be sensitive to harsh criticism. It is best to use positive reinforcement training techniques with this breed.
As intelligence dogs, they thrive when training sessions are short and varied.

Kerry Blue Terriers can be a bit of a challenge for first time dog owners.
Proper training from an early age is essential to make sure that a puppy develops into a well balanced and well behaved dog.
Owners need considerable amounts of patience and need to be familiar with the consistent training methods and positive reinforcement needed to achieve this.
Additionally, the impressive coat of the Kerry Blue Terrier requires quite a lot of maintenance in order to appear in its prime condition.
While this maintenance regime is something a new owner can learn, it will take time, effort and money to do so.
While Kerry Blue Terriers are gentle and loving with those close to them, they also have a more feisty side that needs to be kept under control.

Kerry Blue Terriers can be good playmates with older children who know how to respectfully play with dogs.
Each dog has a different personality and while most are very friendly and willing playmates, Kerry Blues sometimes need their own space and best not to go near them when they are eating for example.
It is always necessary to ensure there is adult supervision when children and dogs are together.

Given the right setting, Kerry Blue Terriers make superb family pets.
However, they do require clear rules that need to be set in place early in life and are best suited to families with slightly older children, who have time to exercise and engage with the dog.
As Kerry Blues don’t tend to get on well with other dogs or small pets, this is also a consideration in determining if a Kerry Blue is the right pet for you.

Well training Kerry Blue Terriers are versatile to a wide range of tasks, including the role of a service dog.
In fact, this breed is often popular as a therapy dog due to its soft, dense silky coat which is perfect for stroking or cuddling.

After a long day with the right amount of both physical and mental stimulation, Kerry Blue Terriers are happy to relax and enjoy some quiet time.
They will gladly curl up at your feet or if you let them, accompany you on the sofa.

Generally speaking, Kerry Blue Terriers are not very good with other dogs.
For a large part of the 19th and early 20th century, this breed was used in blood sports as fighting dogs (like Bull Terriers for example).
There is a tendency to be aggressive, particularly when animals of the same sex are together.
When sparring Kerry Blue Terriers at dog shows to judge their temperament, care should always be taken to ensure that the handlers do not allow the dogs to get too close.
The experience can be a little challenging for a novice handler.

Typically, Kerry Blue Terrier aggression is not directed towards owners (once they are not harshly treated).
In terms of aggressiveness towards kids, this is not usually an issue once the dog is socialized from an early age to be familiar with children and the usual rumpus of family life.
With regards to aggression towards other dogs, this can be an issue for Kerry Blue Terriers, who tend to be a dominant breed.
Other household pets such as cats, rabbits and small animals should be kept away from Kerry Blue Terriers as they fall into the category of prey for Kerry Blue Terriers.

If left alone, the Kerry Blue Terrier tends to become destructive and bark more frequently.
They may also excessively dig or try to escape from an outside yard. These dogs thrive in the close company of their faithful companion so best to not leave them alone all that long or often.

The strong prey drive found in Kerry Blue Terriers mean that they are always alert and ready to chase small sized animals that it catches a glimpse of.
For this reason it is alway advisable to keep the Kerry Blue Terrier on a leash when in a public setting to avoid your dog taking off after the nearest squirrel, rabbit or other game.

Kerry Blue Terriers are considered to be a rare native breed in Ireland as there are less than 300 new registration per year.
In the United States, the American Kennel Club ranked its popularity at 134 of 199 breeds in 2021.
There are many individuals around the world who are dedicated to promoting and preserving this unique Irish breed.
Kerry Blue Terrier Clubs are found in many countries and have small, but very devoted members who take part in regular events.
This breed is not as vulnerable as the other Irish dog breed, the Glen of Imaal Terrier for example or the Scottish Dandie Dinmont Terrier.

Interest in the Kerry Blue Terrier breed started to increase towards the end of the 19th century.
The early 20th century saw the foundation of several of the more prominent Kerry Blue Terrier Breed Clubs, not least of all the Dublin Kerry Blue Terrier Club which earned its place in Irish history as you will read below.
Here are some of the biggest Kerry Blue Terrier Clubs from around the world:

If you have decided that a Kerry Blue Terrier is the right dog for you, then the next step should be to find trustworthy breeders in your vicinity to contact for more information.
Travel in person to collect your new puppy. This allows you to visit the facilities and see the Kerry Blue Terrier kennels where the puppies were raised.
Be vigorous with your questioning to make sure that the Kerry Blue puppies are healthy and well socialized.
A good breeder will not just want to make a Kerry Blue Terrier sale, they will want to make sure that a puppy is well suited to its owners for a lifelong placement.
Have patience until you find the right dog for you and your family.
TIP: When you are looking for Kerry Blue Terrier puppies for sale near me, don’t forget to use all the resources available to you.
Your local veterinarian may be a good person to contact as they may also be able to provide some useful information and breed contacts.

Make sure that you only search for reputable dealers, when looking for a Kerry Blue Terrier for sale. These can be found via some of the national dog club sites. These are some of the main ones:
The American Kennel Club has a designated Kerry Blue Terrier Puppies for Sale page which is regularly updated.
For those based in the UK, The Kennel Club is a good place to start looking for Kerry Blue Terriers for sale.
Kerry Blue Terriers breeders in Ireland and Northern Ireland can be found on the website of the Irish Kennel Club.
The Canadian Kennel Club provides a searchable list of Kerry Blue Terrier breeders throughout the country.
Kerry Blue Terrier Breeders in Australia can be found via the Dogs Australia website.

Kerry Blue Terrier puppies are not cheap.
The exact Kerry Blue Terrier price will vary considerably depending on where you live, whether you are looking to buy a male or female puppy, if there are any champions in the bloodline or whether you want a Kerry Blue as a pet or as a show dog.
You should expect to roughly pay at least US$1500, typically more for a better pedigree.

There are also cases when a Kerry Blue Terrier needs to be rehomed, fostered or adopted.
The national Kerry Blue Terrier Clubs are usually the best place to check if there are any dogs locally that you might be able to help in such circumstances, (or where you can turn to if you need help rehoming a Kerry Blue).
The United States Kerry Blue Terrier Club has a lot of information on Kerry Blue Terrier rescues available on their website, as does the UK Kerry Blue Terrier Association.
Even if you are not based in either of these countries, these are good advice dog resources to check out.

As with all of the 9 breeds of Irish dog, the exact origins are shrouded in the depths of history. Interestingly, there are two dog breeds Kerry is associated with, the Kerry Blue Terrier and the Kerry Beagle.
Many fanciful tales have been created around the origin of the Kerry Blue Terrier.
One reason for this is that the dog breed became such an important mascot for Irish Independence that it was romanticized possibly more than the other breeds which had strong connections to the British.
What is known is that the Kerry Blue Terrier was very much the working dog of the people.
It was a medium sized dog, which would have been allowed on tenant farms (larger dogs would have been confined to the wealthier classes).

Far-fetched tales of single dogs surviving shipwrecks on the west coast of Ireland and fathering a new breed of dog are the focus of Kerry Blue origin tales.
Some say that the ship may have been part of the Spanish Armada or a fishing vessel from Portugal or even Russia.
As pointed out by Daivd Blake Knox in his highly recommendable book (The Curious History of Irish Dogs), dogs were rarely kept on ships and those that were typically not terriers.
However, this does not completely rule out the possibility of some kind of terrier Kerry shipwreck landing ever having occurred.
Additionally, during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I and the time when the infamous pirate Queen Grace O’Malley graced the shores of Ireland with her fleet, sea trade with the coastal areas in Spain and Portugal was a thriving and profitable enterprise.
It may have been possible that some foreign blood was introduced to the Irish dog breed via such a means.
Alternatively, the Kerry Blue may have been a result of some isolated, as well as selected breeding for a particular type of farm animal that would suit the needs of the farmers.
Evidence of such a dog started to appear around the mid 19th century, but the breed was largely kept a secret until the early 20th century.

As a resourceful farm dog, Kerry Blue Terriers were expected to help out in a wide variety of tasks.
These include herding livestock such as cattle or sheep and guarding the animals against predators and other threats.
In terms of earning its keep, Kerry Blue would have been used to hunt small game for the table, such as rabbits (by often poaching on the wealthy landowners land).
Other game would have included otters, which were hunted on both dry land and water by the Kerry Blue Terrier and badgers, who would have been flush from their setts by the dog.
Kerry Blue Terrier would also have been used to retrieve game, as well as killing rodents in the farmhouse and farm buildings which was one of their main tasks.
The terrier Kerry Blue breed has a reputation for toughness, gameness and also aggression and were used in dog fights up until the 20th century.
As a multi-tasking dog with a trainable, yet independent spirit this dog became a firm favorite with rural Irish families so much so that it became embroiled in the War of Indepence in Ireland in the early 20th century.

There is some discrepancy about the first dog show with Kerry Blue Terriers, but there is evidence to suggest that it may have been a dog show in Cork, Ireland in 1913, which had only five entries.
Most of these dogs would have been fighting dogs (the shown breeds Kerry Blue varied in size and lacked standardization).
By late 1910s, the Dublin Irish Blue Terrier Club had formed (it was only in the 1920s that the name Kerry Blue Terrier became more widespread).
What was particularly interesting about this club is that it was filled with Irish nationalists, who saw traits in the Kerry Blue Terrier (such as its feisty, courageous nature and strong Irish connection) that they believed represented the struggle of Ireland and the Irish to gain independence from Britain.
The club held a dog show in October 1920 which was an act of rebellion.
Not only was it illegal to hold a dog show without prior license from the British Kennel Club, it occurred after curfew and one of the country’s biggest fugitives with a bounty on his head, the Irish Nationalist Michael Collins, was also in attendance to show his dog “Convict 224”.
The success of the Dublin Irish Blue Terrier Club went on to trigger the establishment of the Irish Kennel Club.
Plans by Michael Collins were under way at the time of his death to have the Kerry Blue Terrier recognised as the national dog of Ireland.
While this did not happen officially, the dog breed became more popular and well known in the years after his death.

The Irish Kennel Club recognized the Kerry Blue Terrier in 1922, as did the British Kennel Club. The American Kennel Club did likewise a few short years later in 1925.
Since then the blue terrier Kerry is known for has increased in popularity as knowledge of the breed spread around the world.

As this detailed Kerry Blue Terrier Guide has outlined, this breed is shrouded in legend, deeply connected with Irish history and is an intelligent hunting dog that has also become a favored family pet for many around the world.
Kerry Blue Terriers are classified as a vulnerable native Irish dog breed, so continued efforts to protect and promote this breed are necessary.
For owners and fans of Kerry Blue Terriers, there are plenty of gifts available ranging from miniature Kerry Blue Terrier ornaments and decorations, to calendars, stationary and everything in between.

In total there are 9 officially recognised dog breeds from Ireland:
To learn more about these fascinating breeds of dog, as well as their facts and history take a look at our in depth articles about each breed. If you would prefer an overview, this is the guide to Irish Dog Breeds for you.
We also have plenty of information about Irish Doodles that might also interest you!
Check out our best Irish pet names or Irish cat names if you need some more inspiration for a unique moniker!

Please note that this article is only for general information purposes about the Kerry Blue Terrier breed and should not be used as a substitute for health, medical and pet care advice from veterinary specialists.
(Irish Nature Expert and Celtic Enthusiast from Ireland)
Emer Walker, founder of LetsGoIreland.com, is a Cork native with profound expertise in Irish nature and ecology. Holding a PhD in Restoration Ecology and backed by extensive research in ecological sciences, she’s delved deep into Ireland’s natural wonders, from its rugged landscapes to its serene beaches. Emer’s passion also encompasses Celtic art and traditions. As a true authority on Ireland’s natural and cultural heritage, she invites readers through LetsGoIreland.com to immerse themselves in the authentic Irish experience.
--------------------------------------------------
The Kerry Blue Terrier (also known as the Irish Blue Terrier), as the name suggests, originates from the Emerald Isle and specifically from County Kerry, in the south-west of Ireland.  They are a striking looking medium sized terrier that has bags of charm and a fun-loving nature. They are energetic and lively and enjoy chasing around, swimming and having a boisterous play. Their inquisitive nature and finely tuned senses means they adore the chance for a nose around and love exploring outdoors.
They are renowned for their beautiful wavy ‘blue’ coloured coat, which is surprisingly soft and silky. However, they are not born this colour and are in fact born black – only changing to blue as they reach maturity. True to their terrier roots, these dogs are smart, feisty and full of character. Like other terriers, they are skilled hunters. Aside from chasing wildlife, they love being around people and make affectionate and loyal companions.
The Kerry Blue Terrier is a polite companion and will be a loyal member of your family, welcoming friends of the family with an unrivaled fervor. However, due to their guarding instincts, they can be wary of strangers but will be quickly ‘won-over’ with a play or some fuss. Sadly, they are not as welcoming to other pets and can exhibit anti-social and aggressive behaviour towards other dogs.
The Kerry Blue Terrier is believed to originate from County Kerry in Ireland and dates back to around the 1700s. As a member of the terrier family, Kerries (as they are fondly referred to) are renowned for their retrieval skills (over land and water) and their ability to hunt most things that move. This reflects their original purpose, as fox, badger and rabbit hunters. They were also used as farm dogs, due to their herding skills. Today, they are still used for rat and rabbit hunting, herding sheep and cattle, field trials and, last but not least, as a devoted companion.
Outside of Ireland, this striking breed was a late bloomer and remained unknown for many years, until finally gaining recognition by the American Kennel Club (AKC) in 1922.  It was around this time that it made its first appearance in the English and American dog show circuit, where it quickly drew an eager following. This delay is believed to be due to the unkempt appearance of the first few generations of this breed. However, once introduced to the wonders of the grooming parlour, this ugly duckling was swiftly transformed into the beautiful swan of a dog that we are familiar with today.
Kerry Blue Terrier puppies are all born with a black coat that at around 9-24 months of age changes to grey-blue or blue-grey. It is said that the timing of this change in coat colour gives an indication of how light their coat will eventually go. For example, those that change to blue earlier will be much lighter.  Also, it is not uncommon for the muzzle, head, ears, tail and feet to be slightly darker in the adults of this breed. Characteristically, their coat is soft, dense and wavy and should not be coarse.
This breed has a long but proportional head and small dark beady eyes, which are described as wearing a ‘keen terrier expression’. They have small V-shaped ears that are carried forwards and folded so that they sit above their skull. Kerries also have a long sturdy neck and a well-muscled body that sits on four long legs. Finally, their short tail is held proud and straight, giving the appearance that they are always alert and raring for action. This breed is described to move with a ‘fluid-like’ motion.
The Kerry Blue Terrier is a clever, independent and playful breed. They love being part of the family and their sense of fun makes them a fantastic playmate and companion for children. This breed isn’t short of some ‘Irish charm’ too and their cheeky and mischievous terrier antics that will keep the whole family entertained. However, to avoid finding your cat or house rabbit the unwanted recipient of your Kerry’s hunting skills, this breed should ideally be the only pet in the household.

Take care when letting the Kerry Blue Terrier off the lead, as their appetite for exploration combined with their heightened hunting instincts can get them into all sorts of mischief.  So, always ensure you are somewhere safe before unclipping their lead. Other less desirable traits include a love for digging, so if you are green fingered and value your lawn and flower beds, this breed may not be a match made in heaven for you.
Importantly, Kerries love to spend time in your company and do not do well if left alone for long periods of time, as they can suffer from separation anxiety.  This can lead to destructive behaviours developing.
Due to the Kerry Blue Terrier’s stubborn terrier streak and that ‘mind of their own’, they require firm and patient training. It’s well worth the effort though, as this smart breed can pick-up new commands, as well as more complex tasks, quickly once engaged.
Sadly, their recall and obedience can leave a lot to be desired (as their hunting instincts tend to dominate), so always make sure you have a super tasty treat in your pocket at all times when out and about!
The Kerry Blue Terrier is a fairly resilient and healthy breed with a life-expectancy of around 12-15 years. However, they can be predisposed to certain health problems, including:
Kerries are prone to eye problems, including entropion, which is when the eyelids turn inwards, causing the eyelashes to sit against the eyes. This can lead to chronic irritation and corneal ulceration, which can be very painful. They are also predisposed to Dry Eye (also known as Kerato-Conjunctivitis Sicca (KCS)), which is caused by insufficient tear production and can require life-long treatment and management.
Due to their excessively hairy ear canals, they are predisposed to suffering from chronic Otitis Externa, which is caused by an infection of their external ear.
This is a progressive degenerative condition that affects the nervous system, causing limb stiffness and head tremors initially.  As it progresses, it causes those affected to lose co-ordination and stumble and trip before they are finally unable to stand. This is a disease of the young and signs are first evident in puppies aged between 2-6 months with the inability to stand occurring at around 1 year of age.
This condition occurs when the joint created by the hip bone and the end of the thigh bone (femur) don’t sit together properly. This causes the femur to pop in and out of the joint during movement. Over time, this can lead to damage to the cartilage and boney structures within and around the joint. Long-term, this can lead to early-onset osteoarthritis.
This lively breed needs plenty of mental and physical stimulation to keep them content.  They are an all-around athlete and love to run, swim, chase and retrieve. Because of this, they will need to go on at least one long walk a day (for at least 1 hour). They should also be given the opportunity to burn off some of their energy with a spirited play session or a chance to roam-free (when safe to do so, as this breed’s addiction to hunting wildlife can get them lost or in trouble).
The Kerry Blue Terrier has a single coat, that consists of a non-shedding top coat.  This means you won’t have to grab the vacuum cleaner at every given opportunity and can instead sit back, relax and enjoy your fluff free home! However, this does not mean you are completely off the hook in terms of grooming, as this fluffy fella can get knotted and matted and will need combing about twice a week.  You will also need to pop them down to the groomers each month for a quick scissoring and shape.
Kerries have excessively hairy ears and, for this reason, it is vital that you clean them regularly, especially if they are a water-baby! This will help keep them free from any dirt, wax and reduce the risk of them getting an ear infection.
The Kerrie rose to fame when a Kerry Blue Terrier called ‘Ch Torums Scarf Michael’ won ‘Best in show’ at Crufts in 2000. This breed also has a famous following with well-known owners of this breed believed to include, Samuel Beckett (the Irish Novelist), Michael Collins (Ireland’s most renowned patriot) and more recently British Boxer, Henry Cooper, Alfred Hitchcock, and actor Bill Cosby.
Kerries are sometimes used in crossbreds and have been known to be crossed with Poodles, Schnauzers and also Wheaten Terriers – the latter being known as a 'Kerry Wheaten'.
Copyright © 2016 - 2019 DogZone.com - Privacy | Authors | Contact
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Kerry Blue Terrier, also known as the Irish Blue Terrier, hails from Ireland and has a rich history that dates back to the 18th century. The breed was originally developed to hunt small game, control vermin, and act as a versatile working dog for farmers and hunters in the County Kerry region of Ireland. Over time, the breed's role expanded to include water retrieving and herding tasks. The exact ancestry of the Kerry Blue Terrier remains somewhat mysterious, but it is believed to be a product of several terrier breeds, including the Irish Terrier, Soft-Coated Wheaten Terrier, and possibly the Bedlington Terrier.
Kerry Blue Terriers can suffer from canine multiple system degeneration, degenerative myelopathy, von Willebrand Disease I, clotting factor XI deficiency, retinal folds, entropion, cataracts, hip dysplasia, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, spiculosis, hair follicle tumors, cerebellar abiotrophy, and otitis externa. Genetic testing for hereditary conditions can assist veterinarians with diagnosis and proactive care, as well as help breeders identify affected and carrier dogs.
The Kerry Blue Terrier is known for its lively and spirited personality. They are intelligent, curious, and confident dogs, making them excellent companions for active families. They form strong bonds with their owners and can be quite protective. However, early socialization and training are crucial to ensure they get along well with other pets and strangers. This breed is full of energy and requires regular exercise and mental stimulation to prevent boredom and undesirable behavior.
Kerry Blue Terrier puppies are born with a black coat that gradually changes to the characteristic blue-gray color as they mature. They should have the dominant gene for coat fading, which means that their black coat color starts to fade to gray and then to a solid slate blue-gray color by 18 months of age.The Kerry Blue Terrier's history as a versatile working dog is reflected in its ability to excel in various activities, including obedience, agility, and even water sports.The Kerry Blue Terrier is considered a national symbol of Ireland, representing its native roots and rugged charm.
https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/kerry-blue-terrier/ https://www.fci.be/en/nomenclature/KERRY-BLUE-TERRIER-3.html https://www.ukcdogs.com/kerry-blue-terrier  https://www.pawprintgenetics.com/products/breeds/183/  https://www.petmd.com/dog/breeds/c_dg_kerry_blue_terrier
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Kerry Blue Terrier by Shutterstock.
Last Updated on March 4, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
There are many myths circling the Kerry Blue Terrier due to their astonishing appearance and sturdy structure. If they’ve caught your attention, it’s really no wonder. This is certainly a dog that will captivate onlookers everywhere.
The Kerry Blue Terrier is a relatively rare, obscure terrier breed that has a lot to offer potential owners. In this article, we aim to explore what makes the Kerry Terrier fantastic and also some compatibility considerations for people who might want to welcome a new puppy into their home.
Height:
17–18 inches
Weight:
22–30 pounds
Lifespan:
12–15 years
Colors:
Various shades of blue
Suitable for:
Active families, allergy sufferers
Temperament:
Loyal & loving, intelligent, easy to train, friendly, gets along with other pets
The Kerry Blue Terrier gets its name honestly. This dog has a rich, beautiful, gray-colored coat, otherwise coined as “blue.” Their curly, dense fur and distinguished beard set them apart from the rest.
While it is pretty obvious that they are in the terrier category, given their appearance alone, there are plenty of things that set them apart from all of their cousins. Let’s explore all of the things that make the breed unique.


The Kerry Blue Terrier makes one heck of an adorable puppy. Interestingly, these dogs are born black and develop their blue coat slowly over time. It is so interesting to watch your Kerry develop and grow into the dog you will welcome for years to come.
Kerry Blue Terriers are not very common dogs, so locating one might prove to be a task. You might be able to find a breeder or two in your state, but having to travel is definitely a possibility in most cases.
If you plan to get a puppy, we highly recommend buying from a reputable licensed breeder with a history of healthy, fantastic litters. Your puppy will have no trouble learning the ropes. The Kerry Blue Terrier is exceptionally intelligent, even as a little tyke.
So be prepared to get creative about the ways you will keep them out of things that you don’t want them to have.
Kerry Blue Terriers originated in the County Kerry in Ireland in the 1700s and have been bred since the 1820s. The Kerry Blue Terrier was bred as many terriers are—to hunt vermin and other small game. This pup also showed rockstar potential in herding sheep and cattle.
When dog shows became more popular, Kerry Blue Terriers stole the show. Their impressive performance earned them the National Dog of Ireland title, which remains in place today!
It is speculated that the Kerry Blue made its way to other parts of the world thanks to the Spanish Armada. The Kerry Blue Terrier was recognized by the AKC in 1924.
Today, they make fabulous companion animals, though they still have their hunting instincts fully intact.

These are creative and resourceful dogs, an independent breed. Because of their brave, assertive nature, they need that energy fostered correctly early in life. Early socialization and training can make a world of difference between having a mannerly dog or one that rules the roost and gives you a hard time.
Because this can create a mischievous personality, you can find it a little bit more difficult to coexist with them. Early training is certainly recommended, and you should have very strong success.
These dogs are highly intelligent and adaptable, capable of learning a variety of concepts and commands. Because the Kerry Blue Terrier tends to be more dominant, seeking a professional trainer’s help can be very helpful, especially if you are a novice owner.
The Kerry Blue Terrier can acclimate very well to a variety of lifestyles. These dogs tend to have a moderately active energy level, making them perfect for a wide variety of people.
Whether you have a more relaxed lifestyle or you are pretty on the go, the Kerry Blue Terrier can adapt to either. If you are a more sedentary person or have any physical disability, they might not be the best dog for you.
They still require daily walks and other forms of exercise. The Kerry can get along very well with children, particularly if they are raised together. These dogs tend to be slightly aloof with strangers, but generally warm up after, getting to know the situation better.
Since these dogs can be a little bit spicy and energetic, they do best for active families. If you have any physical limitations or cannot provide appropriate exercise, steer clear. A bored or unsocialized Kerry can be destructive.
The Kerry Blue Terrier can get along very well with other canine companions although they do tend to be a little bit bossy. If you have a more dominant dog that doesn’t tolerate being told what to do very well, they might not make the best playmates.
However, with agreeable companions, the dog will form deep bonds with their own species without an issue. In fact, they thrive best when they have at least one more dog around the household.
When it comes to smaller pets, this breed can get along very well with cats if they are raised together. Like many terriers, this dog does have a high prey drive and will certainly chase unfamiliar cats and smaller animals like hamsters and guinea pigs if allowed to do so.

The Kerry Blue Terrier is a medium-sized dog with a stocky, solid build. They have moderate to high activity levels that require a decent caloric intake. While these dogs don’t require any special diets, they thrive best on a nutrient-dense, high-protein recipe.
You can choose from a broad selection of dog food these days, including raw meals, fresh food subscriptions, canned dog food, and dry kibble. Each option comes with its set of pros and cons. What you choose should meet the nutritional profile for canines and be within your budget.
Ultimately, it is up to you and your veterinarian to decide which option works best for your dog. There are plenty of things to consider here, such as budget, health conditions, special requirements, prescription diets, life stages, and any food sensitivities or allergies.
Your Kerry Blue Terrier requires a moderate amount of exercise to stay happy and healthy. These adventurous, chipper dogs are always ready for their daily walks and trips to the dog park.
They are highly alert, so they will probably notify you of every passing squirrel, butterfly, and passerby. While they don’t bark often, they certainly aren’t quiet with their body language. These dogs do very well in homes that have a large, fenced backyard where they can come in and go out at their leisure.
Remember that this isn’t a dog you can crate all day. They need proper socialization, stimulation, and activity to keep them happy.
This breed is particularly intelligent and responds very well to training. They can learn a variety of concepts ranging from simple to advanced. Due to their terrier nature, they march to the beat of their own drum, which can make training challenging at times.
If you’re having a bit of a power struggle with your terrier, you can look for alternate training methods or even look for a professional trainer near you.

A post shared by Luke_kerryblue 🐾 (@lukethekerryblue)

Kerry Terriers are considered hypoallergenic dogs that don’t shed, making them perfect pets for allergy sufferers. If you see your Kerry shedding, it is likely to be in very tiny, small tufts and nothing more. This makes it really easy to keep pet hair off of your furniture and bedding.
The Kerry Blue Terrier has substantially long, curly fur. When trimmed appropriately, they generally have tight knit, shorter hair with a long beard and scruff around the legs.
As with any long-haired breed, you can take them to the groomer and get whatever hairstyle you’d like, although the classic look does look pretty snazzy! You can learn to trim your Kerry at home or take them to a professional.
Your pup should have a full body bath once every 4 to 6 weeks along with a haircut, nail trim, and ear cleaning.
Health is an incredibly important aspect of dog care all the way around the board. Keeping your dog in sound health is probably at the top of your priority list.
After you bring home your puppy, you will need to get them to the vet for a routine checkup and to complete any unfinished vaccinations. This breed is pretty healthy with the exception of some genetic health conditions.
Males are generally substantially larger than their female counterparts. The male generally stands 18 to 19 inches tall and weighs approximately 26 to 33 pounds. Females, on the other hand, stand approximately 17 to 18 inches high and weigh 22 to 29 pounds.
As far as personality is concerned, that would be greatly dependent on the dogs themselves and has nothing to do with the sex of the dog.

Because they are a terrier breed that was bred for hunting rats and vermin, the Kerry Blue Terrier is considered an unfashionable breed. That has in part contributed to their rarity, as people favor more fashionable dog breeds, such as the Poodle, Pug, Dachshund, and others.
The Crufts dog show is the most prestigious dog show in the United Kingdom. In 2000, a Kerry Blue Terrier named Torums Scarf Michael won the Crufts. He also won the Westminster Kennel Club dog show in 2003.
As we mentioned, the Kerry Blue Terrier originated in Ireland. They were named the national dog of Ireland, and they are actually known as the Irish Blue Terrier in their home country.

So, what do you think about the cheery, spirited Kerry Blue Terrier? This dog is a magnificent specimen that is incredibly intelligent, sturdy, and athletic. They can work in a variety of lifestyles, but they can be challenging for novice owners, city living, and more sedentary individuals.
If you have an active lifestyle, the Kerry can certainly keep up and would love to stay busy with you. So, if you’re thinking of bringing a Kerry home, remember to seek out a reputable, licensed breeder near you. These dogs are rare, so traveling is very likely in the cards for you unless you get lucky to find one nearby.
Featured Image Credit: vgorlitsky, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Ashley Bates is a freelance dog writer and pet enthusiast who is currently studying the art of animal therapy. A mother to four human children— and 23 furry and feathery kids, too – Ashley volunteers at local shelters, advocates for animal well-being, and rescues every creature in need. Her mission is to create awareness, education, and entertainment about pets to  
prevent homelessness. Her specialties are dogs and cats.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
