The Korat cat (Thai: โคราช, มาเลศ, สีสวาด, RTGS: Khorat, Malet, Si sawat) is a silver-tipped blue-grey, short-haired breed of domestic cat with a small to medium build and a low percentage of body fat. Its body is semi-cobby, and unusually heavy for its size. It is an intelligent and playful[1] active cat that forms strong bonds with people and is very vocal, with a sound different from other breeds. Among the Korat's distinguishing characteristics are its heart-shaped head, its large green eyes.[2] Its front paws are shorter than the back paws.
The Korat is a natural breed, and one of the oldest stable cat breeds, and one of the very few that has not changed its appearance throughout centuries. Originating in Phimai, Thailand, it is named after its province of origin, Nakhon Ratchasima Province (typically called "Korat" by the Thai people).[3] In Thailand, the breed is known as Si sawat, meaning "colour of the sawat seed".[1]  The Korat is known colloquially as the "good luck cat".[2] Traditionally, they are given in pairs to newlyweds or people who are highly esteemed, for good luck. Until recently, Korats were not sold, but only given as gifts.[1]
The probable first allusion to the breed is in the Thai Tamra Maew (The Cat-Book Poems), authored between 1350 and 1767 CE and now in the National Library of Thailand.[1] However, the illustration of the Korat in this book is not detailed enough to be definitive as to the breed portrayed. In recent years, the Korat was pictured on a postage stamp in Thailand. An example hangs in the city of Korat's post office.
Korats first appeared in Britain under the name "Blue Siamese" in 1889 and 1896, but these solid blue cats did not conform to the cat show judges' perception of a Siamese cat, and they disappeared by 1901. One early import, "Dwina", owned by Russian Blue breeder Mrs. Constance Carew-Cox and mentioned in Frances Simpson's The Book of the Cat (1903), reputedly produced a large number of "Siamese" kittens; the other, Mrs. B. Spearman's Blue Siamese male, "Nam Noi", was disqualified as a Siamese, but accepted in the Russian or Any Other Blue class in which he placed first (WR Hawkins, "Around the Pens", July 1896). Spearman tried unsuccessfully to import more of these "Blue Siamese".[4]
Korats first appeared in the US in the 1950s. In 1959, Cedar Glen cattery was the first to import a pair of Korats to the US for breeding: a male named Nara and a female named Darra.[2] In 1966, the Korat was accepted into championship status, through the efforts of a breeder from Maryland.[2]
The Korat's unusual colour is actually a silver-tipped blue that appears to shimmer. The Thais refer to this colour as "rain-cloud grey", and the shimmer as "sea foam". This cat has a single coat that is short, with roots of a lighter silver blue. The hair shaft colour increases to deeper blue and the tips are silver, especially on the muzzle and toes. This is the only colour accepted for a Korat. The eyes are large and peridot green in an adult cat, but kittens have muddy, amber or golden-green coloured eyes which gradually change as they become adults, at two to four years.[2]
Although it is rare, Korats occasionally have striking or faint white markings or spots or even very faint grey stripes. Sometimes these spots increase in size with age. These are seen as flaws, and the cats are disqualified from competing in cat shows. However, such markings have no effect on personality or health.

The Governing Council of the Cat Fancy recognizes Korat-type cats differing from the traditional solid blue appearance of the Korat on their experimental register. Such cats are registered as Thai Lilac if they are solid lilac. A Thai Blue Point exhibits the colourpoint pattern also seen in Siamese. A Thai Lilac Point also exhibits the colourpoint pattern also seen in Siamese, but in addition exhibits the Chocolate gene.  These should not be confused with the Thai cat, a new name for the original (traditional or classic) Siamese cat type, with a rounder face and thicker body than modern "ultra-typed" Siamese.
The policy for full registration of Korats only allows blue cats of full-registered parents or third-generation supplementary-registered parents.[5] It also requires genetic testing for gangliosidosis to be carried out to ensure that the breed remains free of this inherited disease which once existed in some Korat and Thai breeding lines.
The genes responsible for Pointeds and Lilacs were introduced into the Korat breed when new Korat breeding stock carrying the recessive genes was imported from Thailand. The first recorded Thai Lilac kitten was born to the Jenanca line in 1989, when "Jenanca Lilac Lillee" was born from two Korat parents in the U.K.. In 1990, Lillee's parents were re-mated with more lilac kittens resulting. A young male lilac was then born to another pair, also in the U.K., allowing more crossings without inbreeding too closely.[1]
The first recorded Thai Lilac Point was born to the Clairabelle line in 2014 when Clairabelle Pixie Dust was born from two Korat parents in the U.K.. A re-mating from the same parents resulted in another Thai Lilac Point, this time a boy, Clairabelle Ninja Rococoa. A third and fourth Thai Lilac Point has recently been born into the Jusarka line.
The Korat is one of the more commonly affected breeds for gangliosidosis 1 and gangliosidosis 2. An autosomal recessive mutation in the GBL1 and HEXB gene respectively is responsible for the conditions in the breed.[6]
Atherosclerosis conditions, typically never seen in cats, similar to human atherosclerosis, were also seen in Korat cats. A genetic predisposition is assumed rather than an underlying condition or medical treatment for these conditions in the cats.[7]
--------------------------------------------------
Cat Breeds
Stunning blue-gray fur is only the beginning: The Korat cat is considered to be a living good luck charm in it's native Thailand. Whether you're in search of good fortune or if you're simply hoping to grace your home with a loving, intelligent cat, the Korat may be the perfect pet! This is among the rarest of all cat breeds, so you’ll certainly count yourself fortunate when you find the perfect Korat kitten to spoil.
Korat cats are closely related to Siamese, and share some of their cousin's most endearing personality traits. These kitties love attention, and they enjoy being involved in every aspect of household management: Whether you're fixing lunch, cleaning up after dinner, folding laundry, or catching up on your favorite show, the Korat cat will be on hand to offer advice and a helping paw.
A little less chatty than the Siamese, the Korat might greet you a chirping meow or give you an insistent tap when you aren't offering quite enough attention.
Playful and friendly, Korat cats tend to get along well with everyone including kids, other cats, and well behaved dogs. Fun and games make this cat's world go round, and the more you interact, the happier your relationship will be. Once playtime is over, the Korat cat will eagerly snuggle up next to you.
Korat cats have no special nutritional needs, however they thrive on a high-protein diet without a lot of added carbs. These cats look and feel their best when high-quality food with real meat or real fish as the first ingredient is the mainstay of their diet. If you are able, consider offering your cat a fresh diet.
Korat cats have short, easy-care fur that doesn't require much attention from their human companions. Consider brushing your cat once a week to remove loose hair and reduce shedding, and follow up with a quick polish using a chamois or a silk scarf to bring out the shine in their gorgeous gray coat.
Consider your home the Korat's personal playground! These cats love to run, jump, and climb. Tall cat trees, scratching posts, and plenty of toys help save your favorite belongings from damage while providing your cat with safe, socially acceptable ways to meet their physical activity needs.
Korat cats appreciate interaction from their human and animal companions. For those times when you are not available to play fetch or dangle a feather wand for your kitty, consider food puzzles and other engaging toys. Without appropriate methods of mental stimulation, these intelligent cats quickly find ways to amuse themselves, getting into cupboards and drawers and playing with your belongings.
Korat cats are generally healthy, however they are sometimes born with a fatal genetic condition called gangliosidosis, which disrupts normal cellular function and ultimately causes damage to the central nervous system. Cats with GM1 gangliosidosis show signs of neurologic disease including impaired vision and seizures by about three months of age, and are not likely to survive past their first year.
Korat cats with GM2 gangliosidosis typically show neurologic signs at an age as early as four weeks, and
typically do not survive past the age of eight months.
Fortunately, reputable Korat breeders are able to test parents, greatly reducing the likelihood that
offspring will be affected by this terrible genetic disease.
Natives of Phimai, Thailand, Korat cats are named after the Nakhon Ratchasima province, which is nicknamed Korat by the people of Thailand. Interestingly, the Korat cat is locally known as Si Sawat, which translates to "The color of sawat seed."
Korat cats are first mentioned in the Thai Tamra Maew, also known as The Cat-Book Poems, which features entries that were written beginning as early as 1350 CE.
Until recently, Korat cats were only given away as gifts; they were never sold. At times, they were gifted to important community members as a sign of respect and appreciation. Korat cats eventually made their way to Britain, where they were called Blue Siamese. Since these cats did not conform to Siamese standards, they were sometimes shown in Russian or "Any Other Blue" classes. A cat breeder named Mrs. B. Spearman had a deep appreciation for these graceful feline and attempted to import more of them into England, but was unsuccessful.
Korat cats appeared in the West again when Cedar Glen Cattery imported a breeding pair to the US in 1959. CFA granted the Korat cat championship status in 1966 and today, these incredible cats are recognized by breed registries worldwide.
Most registries only recognize Korat cats with short, single coats that feature hairs with light silver blue roots and deeper blue hair shafts that lighten again to silver at the tips. The Governing Council of the Cat Fancy now recognizes Korat-type cats in solid lilac color, Colorpoint blue, and lilac Colorpoint, respectively known as Thai Lilac, Thai blue Point, and Thai Lilac Point.
Even though these cats are incredibly desirable, the Korat remains notoriously difficult to find.
Pairs of Korat cats were once given to newlywed couples in hope of bringing good luck to their homes and families.
The Korat cat is featured on a popular Thai postage stamp.
Some of the first "solid blue Siamese cats" exhibited in England during the late 19th century were probably Korats.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Korat, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Korat or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Korat, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Korat cats cost between $400-$2,000.
Korat cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Korat cat might weigh between 6-10 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 10"-14" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Korat is 12-15 years.
Korat are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
I love our cat Slash. One thing tho he will never leave us alone.. But so loyal and loving cat.
I also got my then unknown Korat from a foster parent who raved about her. I am allergic to cats but not to her very much. She is a gift from God.
When I’m reading a book she is right there in my face. Then there’s the laser pointer. She lives for it. This is a very sweet and intelligent breed.
Had never heard of the breed until I found Edward at our local shelter: talkative, deeply attached to ONE person, and the smartest cat I’ve ever had. I knew he was not a Russian blue, so looked up gray cats until I found photos of what appeared to be Edward staring back at me. Coat, shape, deep green eyes, habits:  all are Korat. He puts front paws on my chair and pats me for attention, insists on “Edward lap time,” knows individual songs by their tunes (scary) and is bored by toys. Highly athletic and the Alpha of all our pets, both cats and dogs. A wonderful, if demanding companion. I’ve had him for twelve years — he is thirteen — and I hope to have him around for many more.
Sounds like an amazing companion! Thank you for sharing.
Think I have a korat, he was at the local animal shelter, he’s almost 2now , didn’t think I was going to keep him because he was so skittish, love, love him now and can’t imagine my life without him, He’s affectionate, talkative, very interactive, smart , and comes when he’s called! Does not like being alone, will actually cry out if he thinks I’ve left the house. Truly amazing cat.
Earl is a good boy. Very cuddly. Affectionate. Intelligent. Vocal. Loves to play with his sister but he often beats her up. He bites and swats at your ankles if you don’t look at him when you’re passing by. Greets everyone at the door with a few big meows and asks for you stretch him.
I inherited this Korat from my daughter. I was able to identify his breed while looking for cats with crossed eyes. Because the Korat shares many characteristics with Siamese, Korat popped up in my search. My cat fits the description to a “T”.  Loyal and loving and quite vocal.  He is so manipulative and can be bothersome as he will place himself between in your line of sight and anything that is otherwise occupying your attention. When he wants something, he will stare into your eyes as if he is willing you to read his mind and it’s obvious that he wishes he could speak. He is very manipulative and will stare into your eyes and mimic a meow when asking for something he’s not sure you will give him and It gets me every time. Though he is slender in build, he is heavy to pick up and has a tendency to stand on your body with his tiny paws feeling like they are poking through you and that is when we call him Peg-leg.
I am not positive our cat is a Korat. But he sure looks like one. We rescued him from a horse breeding farm/barn at about 4 months old.
His personality & body description match the Korat perfectly. In only the two months we’ve had him, he is beyond our expectations. We feel so lucky to have found him. He is smart, wild, funny, loving, patient with the kids, snuggly and wants to be a part of everything we do.
I have two of these amazing cats and they are loving respond to their name chill and over all amazing cats
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Gino Santa Maria, Shutterstock
Last Updated on March 13, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The country currently called Thailand used to be known as Siam. You might expect the Siamese cat to come from a place named Siam, but if you ask a person there about a Siamese cat, they may not know what you’re talking about. Jean L. Johnson is the person who first brought the rare Korat cat to America after living in Thailand for an extended period. When she asked around looking to adopt a Siamese cat, she found that none of her Siamese friends even knew what that was.
Height:
15–18 inches
Weight:
6–10 pounds
Lifespan:
10–15 years
Colors:
Blue, gray
Suitable for:
Individuals and families who are home a lot
Temperament:
Loving, in charge, regal, possessive, affectionate, selective
Eventually, a pair of Korat cats was sent to Johnson, who was once again living in the United States. This pair of cats was named Nara and Dara, and they arrived on the shores of the US in 1959. These Korat cats are the true cats of Siam and they’re deeply prized animals in their homeland.


The Korat cat is the embodiment of nobility. These creatures are rulers in their hearts and they wear the regal attitude like a crown. They always believe that they’re in charge, regardless of the situation.
Overall, Korats are good-natured animals, though they can be a bit conceited and full of themselves. They seem to get along with most people and prefer company to being alone. In fact, your Korat might reprimand you if you leave them alone for too long. While not as vocal as a Siamese cat, Korats are still very adept at communicating and will certainly get their messages across.
These cats bond closely with their people. They want a lot of your attention and will regularly choose a spot on your lap over any other seat in the house, even if you’re in the middle of doing something.
Korats are gentle cats, though they’re also full of energy. They’re playful and fun-loving with higher-than-average intelligence. They love puzzles, toys, playtime, and anything that poses a challenge for them to sink their mind and claws into.
Korats are great family pets. They’ll get along with all of the family members as long as they feel that everyone understands they’re in charge. These cats will even adapt and learn to adopt a new family if necessary; even well into adulthood. They can be great with children as well, though they don’t like loud noises and over-active households. If your kids are generally calm, then they’ll do well with a Korat.
Korats seem to get along with all creatures that don’t question their authority. They do get along best with other Korats, but they can be friendly with dogs, cats, and everyone but rodents. But if any other creature tries to be the dominant member of the household, your Korat isn’t going to get along and likely won’t play nice.

As a generally healthy cat, Korats don’t have any specific dietary needs that you’ll have to work around. However, they are prone to becoming overweight. So, you’ll want to watch how much you’re feeding your Korat and ensure you aren’t contributing to weight gain.
Korats don’t need excessive amounts of exercise. A good play session a few times a day will suffice. However, these cats can walk on a leash like a dog, so if you want to take them on walks and your Korat seems to enjoy it, it’s certainly not going to hurt.
This breed is known for being exceptionally smart. They’re fast learners and quite intuitive. As such, they’re much easier to train than most breeds of feline. You can easily get a Korat to walk on a leash, use a litter box, and more. Just stick to positive reinforcement and only give a stern “no” for behaviors that you don’t approve of. These cats learn quickly and shouldn’t take too much prodding to produce the behaviors you want.
Luckily, Korats have just a single coat and it’s quite easy to care for. Their hair is short and fine, and they will do well with a short brushing session twice each week. In the spring, your Korat will shed their winter coat and might require a bit of additional grooming.
Aside from minimal maintenance on their coats, Korats only require the basics. Keep their nails trimmed and their ears clean. Additionally, don’t forget to brush their teeth, and you’ll have a healthy cat with little upkeep to perform.
Overall, Korats are a very healthy breed. However, there are still a few health concerns that need to be considered.

There are no physical or behavioral differences between these smaller cats. However, non-spayed and non-neutered cats may develop unwanted behaviors. “Unfixed” male Korats have a habit of running away, while non-spayed females will be extremely uncomfortable when going into heat.

Most cats reach maturity between 12 and 18 months of age. However, Korat cats take much longer than this. Most Korat kittens won’t grow to be full-sized until their five years old. Likewise, they won’t become emotionally or mentally mature until this time. Even their emerald-colored eyes, which are a defining feature of the breed, won’t become that iconic color until the cat is between two and four years old.
So, don’t be surprised if your Korat doesn’t actually look like a Korat while they’re a kitten. It’s completely normal and they’ll grow into their distinctive looks by the time they’re about five.
In Thailand, where this breed originates, these cats are held in such high esteem that they’re considered a good luck charm. In their home country, these cats aren’t called Korats. Instead, they’re known as the Si-Sawat cat. They’re such a symbol of good luck that they’re seldom purchased in Thailand. Instead, they must be given, and they’re always given in pairs.
Even today, it’s looked down upon to purchase a Korat for yourself in Thailand, which means that you must be lucky enough to be gifted a pair if you want some of your own. If you’re already that lucky, you probably don’t need the extra luck that a pair of Si-Sawat cats would bring!
If you’re like most people, you probably associate Siamese cats with Siam. It only makes sense. But the truth is that the Korat cat is the real cat of Siam. So, how did the mix-up occur? Funny story.
It’s believed that the confusion began when King Rama V decided to give a cat to an English Consul. This was meant to be an emblem of the King’s country, Siam. However, the King loved his Korat cats so much that he didn’t want to give any of them away. Instead, he gifted the English Consul a seal point Siamese cat. From then on, the Siamese cat was considered the cat of Siam in the rest of the world, though the Siamese people have always favored the Korat.

Korat cats are considered to be a good luck charm, and they’re highly regarded in their homeland of Thailand (once known as Siam). These are the true cats of Siam, and they’re so steeped in fable and superstition that it’s looked down upon to purchase one. Instead, they must be gifted and always in pairs. Luckily, in the West, you can simply purchase a Korat kitten if you fancy one. And with such a loving, regal personality, why wouldn’t you?
More than just sophisticated cats, these are highly intelligent animals that can be trained more than most felines. Your Korat will want all of your attention though, so make sure you’re home a lot to provide it. These cats don’t like to be left alone long. But they’ll get along with everyone in your household, pets included, so long as everyone respects the Korat as king or queen of the house.
Featured Image Credit: Gino Santa Maria, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
A breed of great tradition and history, the Korat is known for its heart-shaped head, face and chest. Charming, inquisitive, and always ready for fun, this easy-to-care-for breed gets along with everyone. Find out more about this breed and if a Korat is right for you and your family.
Playful
Korats are a small-to-medium-sized breed with compact, semi-cobby bodies. The female weighs between 6-8 pounds, while the male is much larger and can be 10 pounds or more.
Korats are a healthy breed and can be expected to live 15 years or more. It is not unusual to find a Korat that is 20 and still healthy. They remain active participants in the household no matter their age.
Korats come in only one color; blue with silver tipping. Their roots are lighter and turn a darker blue on the hair shaft with silver tipping at the end.
Korats come in only one color; blue with silver tipping. Their roots are lighter and turn a darker blue on the hair shaft with silver tipping at the end.
Khaomanee
Ragdoll
The Korat is a social breed that enjoys being with people. They require the companionship of their families and do not like to be left alone for long periods of time or go unnoticed. If ignored they will become withdrawn. They bond well with families and are affectionate. An attention-seeker, they will climb on your lap or arms to show their love.
Korats generally get along with other animals, but have a tendency to become jealous when other pets receive too much love from its owner. They love to play and are a good fit for families due to their loyalty and the extreme love they share.
The Korat is an imported, natural breed. Outcross with any other breed is not accepted. It is rare, even in its native Thailand where paintings establish its existence as early as 1350. It is greatly cherished by the Thai people who regard it as a “good luck” cat. It is renowned for its affection and loyalty to its owners. Its general appearance is of a silver blue cat with a silver sheen, medium-sized, broad-chested, hard-bodied, powerful, and muscular. All smooth curves with large, wide open, luminous green eyes. The Korat is silver blue from birth to death. It can exist in no other color as a Korat. The Korat reaches maturity between 2 and 4 years of age. The breed enjoys considerable longevity, with many living beyond 20 years. Perfect physical condition and balance is typical, and expected, of the breed. The male is usually larger than the female and must look powerful and fit.
While gentle, and never one to pass up curling up on a warm lap to read with a family member, Korats are also energetic, playful, and highly intelligent. They enjoy interactive play with their families and will fetch toys until their playmate tires of throwing. Challenge their brains with puzzle toys that reward with kibble or treats and teach them new tricks.
They love attention and like to think of themselves as the one in charge. An active and inquisitive breed, they like to explore every inch of their environment. Korats can jump high to find the best perch at the top of a refrigerator or cupboard where they like to survey their domain.
Want to connect with fellow cat lovers and those who love the same breed as you?TICA is a large resource made up of smaller regions and clubs around the world.Click here to find a club near you and contact information for your regional director and website.
Wherever you are, you’re in TICA’s world!®
The TICA website is the only place where you can find TICA member breeders who have signed the TICA Code of Ethics.
Korats can be traced back to Thailand and are often referred to as the “silver-blue cat with the Thai passport”.
The Korat is a symbol of good fortune and considered one of 17 good luck cats of Thailand.
The Thai government named the Korat a “national treasure”.
Korats are very special cats that are considered as a symbol of good fortune. Many traditions surround them: they are the color of silver, signifying wealth; they are the color of rain clouds with eyes the color of young plants representing good harvests; and with their heart-shaped faces, a pair of cats given to a bride ensures a strong and fortunate marriage. Their eyes are large, expressive and oversized for the face with an intense gaze-they are the color of peridots or lily ponds and sparkle like the dewdrops on a lotus leaf. They have compact, powerful bodies that are coiled like a spring and covered with a short, tight gun-metal blue coat with a silvery sheen. No other breed has the sweet heart-shaped head of the Korat. There’s no changing the color of the breed. Korats are silver-blue and a cat of any other color is not a Korat. In Thailand, the Korat is known as the Si-Sawat cat. The Korat name originates with King Rama V of Siam who asked, when presented with the cat, asked what kind it was and was told it came from a high plateau in northeast Thailand called Korat.
The Korat is an ancient cat from Siam (now Thailand) and the earliest picture of a Korat-sometimes known as the Si-Sawat cat-is in the ancient book known as The Cat-Book Poems in Bangkok’s National Library, believed to have been written in the Ayudhya Period of Siamese history (1350-1767). King Rama V (1869-1910) commissioned the monk Somdej Phra Buddhacharn Buddhasarmahathera to copy the book onto special Khoi paper. It shows seventeen cats, whose ownership brings good fortune and six that are omens of the very reverse. Among the Good Luck cats is the Korat.It is believed that Korats were shown in England in the late 1800s but they were probably entered as Siamese because that is where the owner imported them from. They were listed as solid blue and judging descriptions can still be found. In 1959, the first known pair of Korats (Nara and Darra), were imported into the United States by Mrs. Jean Johnson-the pair was gift to the Johnsons when her husband retired from the Foreign Service in Thailand. Many Korats have been imported since then and all Korats can trace their ancestry back to cats from Thailand which has earned them the nickname of the Silver-blue cat with the Thai passport!
Energetic, intelligent, affectionate are all words used to describe the Korat-elitist is another word that could be used since they prefer the company of other Korats. They will accept other cats but expect to be the rulers and will ensure they have pride of place by their owner’s side. They have extraordinary senses of hearing, sight and scent but are gentle cats moving softly and disliking loud or harsh noises. They form strong bonds with their owners and love to cuddle, settling in as close as possible. Korats are active cats that love to play but they are very gentle when they are playing with children. They do, however, know that they have been cherished for centuries in Thailand and expect that tradition to continue wherever they are-and they expect “their” human to understand and cater to their strong likes and dislikes. Korats need your companionship and do not like to be left alone for long periods or ignored when you are home. If they are ignored, they are likely to become withdrawn.
Korats are medium to small short-haired cats-females weigh 6-8 pounds and males weigh from 8-10 pounds. They are compact, powerful cats that feel like a coiled spring and are heavier and more solid than they first appear. They have broad chests and well developed muscles. They have a single, short, close-lying coat covering their powerful bodies and allowing the rippling musculature to show.
They are the only breed that has a heart-shaped head-perhaps one of the reasons they are considered a good luck cat for brides! You can see the heart outline by drawing imaginary lines from the rounded chin to the top of the ears and back to the head. A secondary heart is found by tracing the pronounced eye ridges down to the chin. The characteristic glowing peridot eyes are large and luminous but not bug-eyed or over powering. Their eyes appear slanted when closed but are totally round when fully open.
Korats develop slowly and can take up to 5 years to reach full maturity. The eye color also takes time to develop. Kittens start with the blue of all newborns and then change to amber with a green tinge around the pupil in their teenage years. They finally change to the peridot green of the adult when they are 2-4 years old. Like fine wine, the Korat gets better with age.
Some Korats are exceptionally quiet while others have a lot to vocalize about. Every cat has a wide-ranging vocabulary from a quiet chirp to a full roar-but they generally speak only when they have something to say or need to alert you to their needs.
Korats are generally healthy and can live well into their 20s with proper care. The only known genetically inherited disease they may suffer from is Gangliosidoses (GM1 and GM2). In 1998 a DNA test was developed to screen out GM1 and GM2 carriers and the disease has now been almost completely eradicated. Knowledgeable Korat breeders now use only male and female cats that have been DNA tested free of the disease. If considering a Korat, ask your breeder if their cats have been DNA tested.
Korats are easy to groom due to their short-hair and lack of an undercoat. A brushing once a week in the summer is all that is needed to remove loose hair and keep their coat clean and healthy. In the winter, every other week is sufficient. Their hair does not float off when stroked, making them more compatible for those with cat allergies. Bathing is not usually necessary, nor is professional grooming.
As with all cats, keep their nails trimmed, ears cleaned, and teeth brushed regularly with a vet-approved pet toothpaste and provide a nice tall scratching pole to help their natural scratching instinct.
The Korat is not usually a finicky eater, but it is recommended that they be fed a quality dry food and a combination of fresh and canned food. Most Korats also enjoy cat grass, as it helps their digestion. It is not necessary to feed a raw food diet, but if one decides to, a veterinarian-approved food is always best.
Fresh water should be available at all times. Water bowls should be washed and refilled with fresh water daily. As with all cats, it is important to give your cat fresh, clean water daily so they don’t hesitate to drink. If you worry about your cat drinking enough water each day, here’s a tip from some cat behaviorists: place the water bowl at least three feet away from any food. Cats’ noses are sensitive and an overwhelming smell of food may cause them to drink less. Filtered drinking fountains can also be used in place of a water bowl.
Join the Cat Care Community!
Sign up now for exclusive monthly cat care tips delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your name and email below to stay updated with the best advice for your kitty companions!
"*" indicates required fields
No Committee
--------------------------------------------------
The Korat cat, with its striking silver-blue coat and captivating green eyes, is a cat breed that exudes elegance and charm. Originating from Thailand, the Korat is revered not only for its physical beauty but also for its rich cultural significance. The Korat cat is called the “good luck cat” in its native land, and is steeped in ancient folklore and believed to bring prosperity and happiness to its owners.
Beyond its appearance, the Korat is beloved for its gentle and affectionate nature. These cats form strong bonds with their human companions and are known to be devoted and loyal. They thrive on human interaction and enjoy being part of family activities. Despite their affectionate nature, Korats can also be independent and may appreciate some alone time, making them adaptable to various living situations.
When considering a Korat, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Korat kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Korat breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Move over, rabbit’s foot. The Korat is a living good-luck charm in his home country of Thailand, where he is also known as the Si-Sawat cat. The silver-blue cats with the emerald-green eyes are said to date to the 14th century based on their depiction in ancient literature. They were popular gifts, always presented in pairs, and had special meaning when given to brides because of their association with prosperity and fertility.
The name Korat comes from the region in northeast Thailand where the cats are thought to have originated. It’s unclear when Korats first came to the West. A cat that resembled a Korat was exhibited at a show in England in 1896, but whether it was truly a Korat (pronounced ko-raht) or simply a self-blue Siamese—meaning solid-colored—is not known.
The first known Korats imported into the United States arrived in 1959. Appropriately, they had been given as gifts to an American couple who were returning to the U.S. after the husband had retired from the Foreign Service. The Cat Fanciers Association recognized the breed in 1967, two years after Korat breeders founded the Korat Cat Fanciers Association to promote the breed.
Wherever they are found, all Korats can climb their family tree all the way back to Thailand. They are a natural breed and have never been outcrossed to any other breed as part of their development or to create another breed. They are recognized by all the major cat associations.
This is a medium-size cat, weighing from 6 to 10 pounds.
The smart and opinionated Korat is possessive of his people. He likes to stay close by and won’t desert them for visitors. He gives his heart to one or two people whose company he prefers, or with whom he spends the most time, but he’s certainly willing to accept affection from others as well. Be aware of this propensity before you get a Korat, just in case having a cat follow you around all the time would drive you crazy.
A Korat is not a loner. He does best with companionship, whether that is someone who works at home or another animal. There’s a reason, it seems, that traditionally they were always given in pairs. A Korat who is frequently left alone or ignored may develop behavior problems such as aggression or separation anxiety. That’s not to say that adult Korats can’t switch their affections. Cats placed in new homes quickly adapt and bond closely with their new family.
This is an energetic cat who enjoys learning tricks, playing fetch and even walking on leash. It’s easy to teach household rules to the Korat if you reward him with petting, a happy “Good cat” or a treat. Limit corrections to a loud “No!” or hand clap. If you have multiple cats, be sure you have plenty of toys to go around. The Korat did not learn to share in kittygarten, and he can be stubborn about giving up toys or other objects that he views as his.
Although he can be bold with definite likes and dislikes, the Korat is generally a quiet cat who likes a quiet environment. Although he’s not known for being talkative, he is capable of making many different sounds, from a chirp to a scream, when he wants to get his point across. Choose the Korat if you enjoy having a lap cat. He will be pleased to fulfill this desire any time you like.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Korats are generally healthy, but they have a couple of issues buyers should be aware of:
Anesthesia Sensitivity: A genetic neuromuscular degenerative disease as well as low body fat, which can make them sensitive to anesthesia, GM1 and GM2 gangliosidosis occur when cats lack particular enzymes that are necessary for proper functioning of the nervous system. Fortunately, tests are available to identify cats that carry the diseases, so the condition is uncommon. Korats typically have a low percentage of body fat, so veterinarians should take this into account when determining how much and what type of anesthesia to given when a Korat is undergoing any type of surgery.
Be sure to ask a breeder about the incidence of health problems in her lines and what testing has been done for any that are genetic in nature. In the case of GM1 or GM2, both parents should have been tested, and if one is positive or a carrier, the kittens should be tested as well.
The Korat’s short single coat requires little grooming. Comb it weekly to remove any dead hairs. A bath is rarely necessary. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene. It’s a good idea to keep a Korat as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Korats who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
With his silver-tipped blue coat and huge green eyes—“as sparkling as the dewdrops on a lotus leaf”—the Korat is one of Thailand’s most beautiful exports. He is noted as well for his heart-shaped head, large ears and alert expression. A Korat’s eyes are blue at birth. As he matures, the eyes turn to amber, the pupil surrounded by a fringe of green. By the time the cat is two to four years old, the eyes have become the brilliant green for which the breed is known.
Korats will appreciate the attentions of a child who treats them respectfully, and they enjoy playing and learning tricks. With proper supervision, they can be a good companion for children.
Like many cats that originated in Southeast Asia, Korats tend to prefer other Korats. They can get along with other cats, and with dogs, but they expect to have pride of place. This may or may not go over well with other animals. The Korat likes to have company, however, and if he spends a lot of time with another cat or dog, they will likely become close friends.
Korat Rescue Groups
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
