Image Credit: vagabond54, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 29, 2025 by Radim Chudej
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Kuvasz is part of a group of ancient Hungarian dog breeds, and the plural for Kuvasz in Hungarian is Kuvaszok. They’re an intelligent and dignified dog breed that was originally bred to guard livestock. This explains their large size, steady and watchful temperament, and strong guarding instincts.
Kuvaszok have the potential of being loving and loyal protectors of the family. However, they’re not for the fainthearted. They require firm and consistent training and a trustworthy owner who won’t be intimidated by their large size and independent personalities. If you’re an experienced dog owner who’s up for a challenge, the Kuvaszok may be an excellent companion for you.
Height:
26–30 inches
Weight:
70–115 pounds
Lifespan:
10–12 years
Colors:
White
Suitable for:
Experienced dog owners, families with older children, rural life, active lifestyles
Temperament:
Affectionate, calm, loyal, protective
Kuvaszok are certainly eye-catching dogs. They’re large and have brilliant white coats that make them hard to miss. They were bred to be loyal, brave, and protective, and they take their responsibilities seriously. While they tend to be a bit aloof and wary of strangers, they’re gentle giants with their family members and can be affectionate with children. With proper training, Kuvaszok have the potential to become beloved family dogs and some of the most fearless companions.

Kuvaszok aren’t very common in the US, so it can be challenging to find a breeder near you. It may help to begin your search with the Kuvasz Club of America and look through the club’s breeder registry.1 You might also be able to find Kuvaszok available for adoption from Kuvasz rescue organizations. However, it’s more likely you’ll find adult Kuvaszok rather than puppies. Purebred Kuvasz puppies are also rarely found at dog adoption centers, so if you want to raise a puppy, your best bet is to find a breeder.
Kuvasz puppies tend to have a lot of energy and will require your full attention. It’s important to start training and socialization as soon as possible. Kuvasz puppies grow to a large size quickly, and an unruly, young Kuvasz can easily wreak havoc in your home.
Once your Kuvasz puppy has gotten vaccinated, take them to puppy playdates hosted by reputable dog training facilities. These types of events will enable your puppy to interact and socialize with other puppies under the supervision of a trained professional.
When working on socialization, make sure to introduce your Kuvasz puppy to new environments and people gradually so that they don’t feel overwhelmed. Give them plenty of praise, encouragement, and treats so that they can build positive associations with new experiences.
The Kuvasz is considered to be an ancient dog breed and has been living alongside humans for centuries. It’s believed that the earliest Kuvaszok lived in the Ural Mountains in Siberia with the Magyar tribes. They were bred to protect larger livestock, including cattle, horses, and sheep.
Kuvaszok became more prominent among the Hungarian nobility during Hungary’s Renaissance period. They were mostly used as hunting dogs and guard dogs. As with many purebred dogs, the Kuvaszok’s existence was threatened during World War II when times were difficult and less energy was put into breeding programs. Kuvaszok were even known to be hunted by invading troops because their protective natures and strength made them a significant obstacle.
Fortunately, the Kuvasz breed was revitalized through the dedication and effort of many breeders in Hungary and other parts of Europe. In the US, the Kuvasz was officially registered with the American Kennel Club (AKC) in 1931. The KCA was founded in 1966, and the AKC recognized it as the official breed club of America in 1993.

Kuvaszok were bred to guard and protect and have the perfect temperament and physical features to serve these purposes. They’re calm and steady while being observant and watchful. They have a lot of strength and stamina, and their large size will cause anyone to pause and think twice about getting on their bad side.
Kuvaszok also have excellent intuition and are highly intelligent, which makes them independent and quick to act. While this all sounds great, it can also be challenging for inexperienced dog owners. It takes time and significant effort to earn a Kuvasz’s trust and respect. They’ll easily pick up on any hesitancy and will bypass any commands given by anyone they don’t trust. Therefore, Kuvaszok are best reserved for experienced dog owners who have a clear understanding of canine behavior and positive training techniques.
Once you’ve earned a Kuvasz’s respect, you’ll find yourself living with a loyal and devoted companion. Kuvaszok will love their families but will form a strong bond with one or two of their favorite people. They value human companionship and don’t do well being left home alone for long hours. So, they’re ideal for people who work from home or in families where there’s usually someone around to keep them company. They’re also not suited for apartment life due to their large size, high exercise needs, and loud bark. At the bare minimum, they need a securely fenced yard to play in, but they’ll thrive living in rural areas where they have plenty of space to run and roam.
Kuvaszok can be great family dogs when they’re trained properly. They’re very protective of their families and are usually calm and patient with children in their family. However, due to their large size, Kuvaszok aren’t recommended for families with young children. They can be intimidating, and Kuvasz puppies may overwhelm or accidentally knock over young children when they’re playing. Kuvaszok also may not show the same patience to children outside of their families and may act protective if they’re being too rowdy.
Kuvaszok usually do best when they’re the only dog in the home. They’re not very social and much prefer human companionship. However, they can get along with pets if they’re socialized properly and learn that other pets are part of the family.
Kuvaszok don’t usually enjoy meeting other dogs or animals outside of their families, as they tend to be more wary or aloof. Kuvaszok that haven’t been socialized tend to be aggressive rather than shy or timid, and their strength and size can make them a liability. Therefore, we can’t stress enough how crucial early socialization is for a Kuvasz.

Kuvaszok are generally healthy dogs and usually do well with eating high-quality dog food formulated for large dog breeds. Large dog breeds have unique nutritional needs, and it’s especially important to monitor their food intake when they’re puppies. Large dog breed puppies grow fast, and they need proper diet and nutrition to help them grow at a healthy rate. Growing too fast can lead to skeletal abnormalities, obesity, and orthopedic problems.
It’s best to work with your veterinarian to monitor your Kuvasz puppy’s growth and development and adjust their diet and food portions accordingly. Your veterinarian can also recommend reputable brands that meet your dog’s nutritional needs and use high-quality nutrient sources.
Once your puppy starts to reach adulthood, make sure to transition them to adult dog food made specifically for large dog breeds. In general, large dog breeds require fewer calories per unit of body weight than small dog breeds. They’re also at higher risk of developing joint issues due to their large size. So, it’s important to have a discussion with your veterinarian about if and when it’s appropriate to add bone and joint supplements to your Kuvasz’s diet.

A post shared by Madelon (@maddeluxeee)

Kuvaszok are high-energy dogs that require at least an hour of exercise a day. They aren’t the most playful dogs, so it’s not likely they’ll engage in playing with toys. They prefer going on walks and participating in outdoor activities like hiking, hunting, and camping. Kuvaszok will also enjoy being able to roam around off-leash and explore their surroundings.
It’s important to be mindful of how much exercise and what types of exercise your Kuvasz does, especially as they age. Older Kuvaszok are more prone to joint pain and injuries if they engage in high-impact or strenuous activities. However, they can also be prone to gaining weight, so owners must find a good balance of exercise and rest for their Kuvaszok to maintain a good quality of life.
Training a Kuvaszok is usually challenging at first because they can be stubborn and have an independent streak. Therefore, it’s important to incorporate bonding time with your Kuvasz into your training plan. Kuvaszok are more likely to listen and be receptive to obedience training with people they love, trust, and respect. Make sure to play with your Kuvasz frequently and establish a consistent daily routine. This will help your Kuvasz to recognize you as their owner and provider, as you’re the one who’s dependably feeding, walking, and playing with them.
Kuvaszok usually do well when training sessions are kept short and fun and scheduled multiple times throughout the day. Make sure to find what motivates your Kuvasz, such as treats or praise, and use these motivators to keep them engaged. Kuvaszok will never respond well to punishment and harsh treatment. If you experience challenges with training, it’s best to work with a professional dog trainer as soon as possible to avoid reinforcing and perpetuating bad behavior.
Kuvaszok have thick double coats that need to be brushed several times a week to prevent matting. They’re also heavy seasonal shedders, so it’s helpful to invest in a high-quality grooming rake or de-shedding tool.
A Kuvasz’s coat can grow to about 6 inches in length. It’s important never to shave their coat because their double coat protects them from sunburn and helps regulate their body temperature. If you want to find ways to keep your Kuvasz’s coat more manageable, schedule an appointment with a professional groomer. They can trim their coat and remove any mats and tangles.
Since overbathing can dry out a Kuvasz’s skin, only bathe them when necessary, such as when they start to smell or if they roll around in something dirty. You can use pet wash wipes to spot-clean and remove any dirt and debris from their coats in between baths.
Kuvasz can live healthy lives well into their older adulthood. However, they’re prone to developing certain health issues commonly associated with large dog breeds as they age.
Male Kuvaszok usually grow a little larger than female Kuvaszok. Both males and females have strong protective instincts and are devoted to their families. From a behavior standpoint, it’s highly recommended to neuter or spay Kuvaszok that aren’t being raised for breeding. Neutering and spaying can reduce certain behaviors associated with mating, such as being territorial, aggressive, and having the drive to roam.

The Kuvasz’s thick, luxurious coat is a showstopper, but it was primarily selected for functional purposes. First, it kept them warm during cold winters. It also helped people distinguish them quickly and easily from any wolves that attempted to infiltrate their livestock.
King Matthias Corvinus established his own Kuvasz breeding program during his reign in Hungary in 1458-1490. Since betrayal and assassinations were common during this time, it was said that King Matthias trusted his Kuvaszok more than his own royal guard. He would also occasionally gift noblemen with one of his Kuvaszok, and it was considered to be a special honor to receive a Kuvasz from the King’s Royal Kennels.

By the end of World War II, only about 30 Kuvaszok were found to be alive. They had been counted by a factory owner who was looking for a Kuvasz to guard his property. The realization of the scarce number of Kuvaszok spurred breeding programs to help revitalize and revive the breed’s population numbers. Since the number of purebred Kuvaszok was so small, large dog breeds with white coats were incorporated into breeding programs, including Great Pyrenees and Maremma Sheepdogs.

Kuvaszok are excellent dogs for experienced dog owners who are looking for a fearless companion or guard dog. They thrive in homes that have plenty of space for them to run around and exercise. They’re also a good fit for people with active lifestyles and enjoy spending time in the great outdoors.
While training a Kuvasz can be challenging at first, it gets easier over time as you earn their trust and respect. It will take extra time and effort to train and socialize a Kuvasz, but it’s certainly worth the investment. With the proper care and attention, Kuvaszok have the potential to become some of the bravest and most loyal family dogs you’ll ever find.
Featured Image Credit: vagabond54, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Jessica is a freelance writer who spends bigger part of her day researching and writing while her furry companion Cavapoo, Nora, snoozes beside her. She loves dogs, pets and animals because there’s so much to learn from them, and they do so much for us. As a dog mom, she understands the strong connection that pet parents have with their pets. So, she loves sharing helpful information that pet owners can use to better understand their beloved pets. When she isn't writing, you may find her walking dogs, tending to her plants, or drinking her nth cup of coffee.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Thank you for subscribing to Petful Recall Alerts. You’ll now receive important pet food recall updates directly in your inbox based on your subscription preferences. You can update those in the footer of the emails we send you.


The Kuvasz is a protective, large working dog who loves children and their family members. These dogs are wary of strangers, however.
Don’t leave your pet’s safety to chance
Sign up for Petful recall alerts today.
Don’t leave your pet’s safety to chance
Sign up for Petful recall alerts today.
The Kuvasz is a large, muscular working dog with Asian origins. It has a wedge-shaped head and is flanked by V-shaped ears with rounded tips.
Its feet are unique, black, well-padded, and shaped tightly, resembling a cat’s paws. The Kuvasz has a medium-length, double coat:
A mane is typical around the neck and hangs down over the chest. The back of the legs is often feathered with hair. The coat can be wavy or straight.
The history of the Kuvasz dates back to at least 2000 B.C., when travel between Europe and Asia led Magyar tribes to bring dogs along with their livestock. The breed developed further in Hungary, where it became a favorite of King Matthias.
The breed nearly went extinct during World War II because of its fierce protection abilities. Invading forces may have targeted the dogs to gain easier access to properties. After the war, a factory owner started a breeding program after finding only a limited number of Kuvaszok left in the country.
The first Kuvasz appeared at a dog show in Vienna in 1883. The breed standard was written in 1885, and the American Kennel Club recognized it in 1931. The Kuvasz Club of America was founded in 1966.
The Kuvasz was primarily bred as a livestock guardian dog, a role it continues to perform today.
The Kuvasz remains an important working dog and loyal companion, known for its intelligence and protective instincts.
For more information, check out the Irish Wolfhound on the AKC website.
Kuvaszok are loyal, fearless, intelligent, assertive, and protective dogs. Their protective instinct is so strong that they will sacrifice themselves to defend their loved ones or flocks.
Training should start early in the dog’s life. Ideally, the same person should conduct the training consistently to establish trust and authority. This is because Kuvaszok tend to choose who they obey and may not respond well to multiple trainers. Positive reinforcement works best for this breed, as they are sensitive to harsh discipline.
These dogs get along wonderfully with children and are particularly protective of them.
Kuvaszok are also good with other household pets.
For more information, check out this article on positive reinforcement training for dogs.
Kuvaszok are protective dogs that require socialization and training to thrive. They are wonderful with children and other pets, but it’s important to remember:
Daily exercise is essential for a healthy Kuvasz. They have high endurance and need regular activity to stay fit.
To ensure a healthy life, it’s important to keep up with regular veterinary visits and feed a quality dog food. The Kuvasz’s double coat makes them ideal for colder climates, though they can adapt to warmer climates and will shed their outer coat.
If you are looking for a protective family dog and can commit to proper socialization and training, the Kuvasz could be the perfect addition to your home.
HIGH: The Kuvasz requires daily exercise to stay healthy and fit. This breed has high endurance and stamina, accustomed to working for long periods, even over rough terrain.
MEDIUM: Brushing a Kuvasz a few times a week is generally sufficient for routine grooming. However, during shedding seasons, when they blow their coat, more frequent brushing is necessary.
In addition to coat care, it’s important to attend to other aspects of the dog’s health:
This video shows a Kuvasz with a slightly wavy coat and displays how one gets along with a cat:
MEDIUM: There are a few health issues to be aware of:
Kuvaszok can be difficult to find because they are not a common breed. Check rescue and adoption resources first.
If you do contact a breeder, ask for health clearances/tests on the parent dogs and beware of signs that the breeder is operating a puppy mill.
Yes, Kuvasz dogs shed, especially during seasonal shedding periods.
The Kuvasz is a large, protective, and loyal working dog originally from Hungary.
The cost of a Kuvasz can range from $1,000 to $2,500, depending on the breeder and lineage.

Kristine Lacoste has been researching dog and cat breeds for nearly a decade and has observed the animals up close at dog shows in both the United States and the United Kingdom. She is the author of the book One Unforgettable Journey, which was named as a finalist for a Maxwell Award from the Dog Writers Association of America, and was host of a weekly pet news segment on the National K-9 Academy Radio Show. In addition, she was the New Orleans coordinator for Dogs on Deployment, a nonprofit that helps military members and their pets, for 3 years. Kristine has researched and written about pet behaviors and care for many years. She holds a bachelor’s degree in psychology, another bachelor’s degree in English and a Master of Business Administration degree.



Every year, the American Kennel Club reveals the most popular dog breeds, but are they right for you? Here’s what to know.
The fillers and chemicals that manufacturers put into some pet foods are scary. Here are some things to keep in mind as you’re looking at the labels.
Time to visit your local farmers market! There are a lot of healthy, fresh produce options that you can offer your pup.
See the 2025 breakdown of The Farmer’s Dog cost by day, week & month with our pricing table. We also share our thoughts on this fresh dog food brand. Promo code included if you want to try it for yourself.
Whippets are fast dogs bred from Greyhounds, but they are also loyal companion pets with fun personalities.
Spanish water dogs are active, intelligent dogs with coats that can form cords. Find out what else makes them unique in our breed profile.
Don’t leave your pet’s food safety to chance
Sign up for Petful recall alerts today.
Don’t leave your pet’s food safety to chance
Sign up for Petful recall alerts today.
Get Free Recall Alerts
--------------------------------------------------
Also known as: Hungarian KuvaszOrigin: HungaryPurpose: Livestock guardian, companion
Interaction patterns with humans and other animals
Overall care requirements and upkeep needs
Overall health score based on common issues and life expectancy
Overall ability to adapt to different environments and situations
This breed is moderately affectionate and forms strong bonds with their family
Shows very high energy levels and requires appropriate exercise
Displays moderately high intelligence and learning capability
moderately outgoing and welcoming towards people and other animals
Shows very protective instincts towards family and territory
Appropriateness for first-time dog owners
Overall ease of training and learning capability
Suitability: Low. Requires: Multiple daily walks, Access to dog parks, Regular outdoor activities
Suitability: High. Ideal features include: Fenced yard, Space for indoor play, Access to outdoor activities
Thrives in cold weather due to thick coat, but can overheat in extreme heat. Requires careful monitoring in summer.
Good with older children but may be too large and energetic for young ones. Supervision is recommended.
Recommendations:
Reserved and protective around strangers. May take time to warm up.
Can be social with proper introduction and early socialization. May show dominance.
Best Practices:
Early socialization required, may chase due to prey drive.
The Kuvasz (pronounced KOO-vahz), also known as the Hungarian Kuvasz, is a majestic and noble breed with a rich history rooted in Hungary. Originally bred as a livestock guardian, this breed has been protecting flocks and families for centuries. With its striking white coat and regal presence, the Kuvasz is not only a working dog but also a loyal companion.
The Kuvasz has ancient origins, dating back to the time of the Magyar tribes in Hungary. These dogs were highly valued for their ability to guard livestock from predators and intruders. Over time, they became symbols of nobility and were often seen in the courts of Hungarian kings. Today, the Kuvasz is recognized by major kennel clubs, including the AKC and FCI, and continues to be a beloved breed for those seeking a protective and devoted companion.
The Kuvasz is known for its intelligence, independence, and loyalty. These traits make them excellent guardians but also require an owner who understands their unique temperament.
The Kuvasz is an active breed that requires daily physical and mental stimulation to stay happy and healthy.
The Kuvasz’s thick, double coat requires moderate to high grooming to keep it in top condition.
The Kuvasz is intelligent but independent, which can make training a challenge. However, with patience and consistency, they can excel.
The Kuvasz is best suited for homes with ample space and a secure yard. They are not ideal for apartment living due to their size and exercise needs.
The Kuvasz is generally a healthy breed, but like all dogs, they are prone to certain health issues.
The Kuvasz typically lives 10-12 years. Providing a balanced diet, regular exercise, and routine vet care can help ensure a long, healthy life.
The Kuvasz is a remarkable breed that offers loyalty, protection, and companionship. However, they are not the right fit for everyone. Here’s what to consider before bringing one into your home:
If you’re ready for the commitment, the Kuvasz will reward you with unwavering loyalty and a lifetime of companionship. They are not just pets—they are guardians, protectors, and family members.
Your experience with Kuvasz could help others make informed decisions. Join our community to share your insights!
Unable to load comments. Please try again later.
--------------------------------------------------
Collection of all the general dog breed info about Kuvasz so you can get to know the breed more.
Due to its popularity, inbreeding may occur. A new study shows that inbreeding contributes to the incidence of disease and health problems.
The Kuvasz ranks average in the intelligence ranking of dogs.
This breed's emotional level reflects their owner's feelings and they don't handle punishments well.
Top reasons for barking: protection, alarm, fear, boredom, attention-seeking, greeting, separation anxiety, compulsive barking.
Low  🔽
Above 400 PSI  🔼
The Kuvasz PSI bite should be respected, and appropriate precautions should be taken when interacting with these dogs. The PSI of a Kuvasz bite is high, making them one of the strongest breeds in terms of bite force.
They are very protective of themselves and their families, therefore a dog bite from them could be exceptionally dangerous with their PSI being above 400.
To ensure a well-behaved and controlled dog, it's important to learn how to train a Kuvasz puppy not to bite from an early age. It is important that they’re trained to be around others safely.
Do Kuvasz dogs need a lot of exercises?
If you notice any weight gain, consult your veterinarian and make a diet plan. Reduce unhealthy food and snacks, and measure the Kuvasz weight regularly.
Ears and eyes should be cleaned sometimes to avoid infections. Kuvasz is one of the best choices if you don't have the time, skill, or money to take care of a high-maintenance dog.
If you notice any change in your dog's drooling habit, you should contact a vet as soon as possible.
Low  🔽The Kuvasz has a low chance of bad smell. Top reasons for dog stinkiness: infection of bad tooth/ear/skin folds, gas attacks.
The Kuvasz has a low chance of bad smell. Top reasons for dog stinkiness: infection of bad tooth/ear/skin folds, gas attacks.
Bathing will wash away your dog’s natural oils, while a simple brushing every few days should keep them clean.
Not really This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Kuvasz is not the best breed for service purposes.
This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Kuvasz is not the best breed for service purposes.
Kuvasz is not the best breed for service purposes.
Not really This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Kuvasz is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Kuvasz is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Kuvasz is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Not really They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Kuvasz is not the best breed for detection purposes.
They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Kuvasz is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Kuvasz is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Not really This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Kuvasz is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Kuvasz is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
The Kuvasz is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
Not really Kuvasz breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Kuvasz breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Yes
Kuvasz breed is a good choice for drafting purposes.
Not really In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
60-64 days
During this time the females start to attract males. You can notice by swelling vulva and bloody discharge.
The second part is the Estrus when the female is receptive for the male. It lasts for about 3 to 11 days.
The sign of the proestrus part is the soft and enlarged vulva. The discharge decreases and lightens in color.
The third part is the Diestrus. Normally, it occurs around day 14. In this period the female’s discharge changes for vivid red and coming to its end. The vulva returns to average, and she will no longer permit mating.
The fourth part called the Anestrus. The time frame between heat periods normally lasts about six months.
Once a year.
Mar 13, 2024, 1:03:51 AM:
HE IS NOW 5, HOW IS HE DOING
Dec 31, 2020, 7:39:12 PM:
we have a two year old rescue pulls and wines and barks in car and in thewoods lunges at squirells we are retired can yoy help regards john
Aug 6, 2020, 5:51:36 AM:
--------------------------------------------------
Our online vet service is live
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Soft and fluffy in appearance, but fearless and protective in personality, the giant Kuvasz is not the breed for the first-time owner. Bred to guard their flock, human or animal, with their lives, these dogs need constant and consistent socialization throughout their lives to ensure they don’t let their guardian nature stray too far towards dangerous aggression.
Height:
26 – 30 inches
Weight:
70 – 115 pounds
Lifespan:
10 – 12 years
Colors:
White
Suitable for:
Experienced, active dog owners with patience for training and socializing
Temperament:
Loyal, fearless, sweet, protective, active
If you’re intrigued by these loyal and gorgeous dogs (known in plural form as Kuvaszok), read on to learn more about what it’s like to live with and be guarded by a Kuvasz!


A post shared by wuffypuppies (@wuffypuppies)

The Kuvaszok dog is not a common breed in the United States, and you may end up having to ship your new pet long distances or even from outside of the country. Make sure that the breeder you choose screens their dogs for inherited health conditions before you agree to buy a puppy. Because you may need to purchase a puppy from a breeder without being able to see the parents in person, it’s even more important to ask detailed questions about their health and certifications.
Kuvaszok are sometimes available for adoption, often from responsible breeders, who’ve agreed to take back any dog they sell who doesn’t work out in their new home. When you bring home a Kuvaszok puppy, be ready to have regular training sessions and early socialization so they can adapt to home lifestyles.

The Kuvasz is a very intelligent, slow-maturing, independent, and extremely protective breed. They are generally loving and loyal to their families but require careful, early socialization to keep their guardian instincts appropriately channeled. Bred to guard and protect livestock, the Kuvasz needs firm training and guidance to adapt to life as a family pet.
Without consistent socialization, especially in the first 2 years of life, some Kuvaszok may even become aggressive and not suitable for the pet dog life.
Because of their history as guardian dogs, Kuvasz can make protective, loving family pets. However, they are not a breed that naturally loves and befriends everyone they meet. To ensure a Kuvasz makes a well-behaved family member, early training and socialization are a must. Busy families who don’t have the time to devote to this should probably consider a different breed.
Well-socialized Kuvasz can do well with children and may guard them as they would a flock of sheep. Keep in mind that a fully-grown Kuvasz often weighs 100 pounds or more and is a higher-energy dog than many other large dog breeds. Children should always be supervised around a Kuvasz because of their size and protective nature.
If your kids have active social lives with many friends in and out of the house, the Kuvasz may not handle the strange children well.
More so than many breeds, how well a Kuvasz fits in as a family dog depends strongly on how they are trained and socialized from a young age. For this reason, they are not the breed for first-time dog owners or those without the time to spend helping their dog become a well-behaved pet.

A post shared by EVOest (@evoest4pets)

Again, socialization is key to how well a Kuvasz gets along with other animals. They can usually learn to live with other dogs if they’re raised with them or carefully socialized and trained. Strange dogs may not fare as well if the Kuvasz views them as a threat to their family.
Kuvaszok are usually best kept in a home without cats. Kuvasz puppies raised with dog-savvy cats may be able to safely live with felines but because of their size, bad interactions can quickly turn dangerous for a kitty. Birds and other small exotic pets should be kept safely and separately from a Kuvasz if they must share a household at all.
If you are looking to add a dog to a multi-pet household, you are probably better off with a breed other than the Kuvasz.

Your Kuvasz should do well on any type of nutritionally balanced dog food. If you choose to create homemade meals for your dog, work with your veterinarian to make sure the diet contains all the essential nutrients. Your veterinarian can also help you figure out the right amount of food to feed your Kuvasz. Despite their size, the breed doesn’t require as much food as other large dogs and can easily become overweight, so they need a more tailored approach to their daily caloric intake.
The Kuvasz is an athletic, active dog by nature, especially when they are young. Growing Kuvaszok need daily exercise and do best in a home with a fenced yard. Mature Kuvaszok needs less overall exercise and tends to be more adaptable to different family activity levels.
Although Kuvasz can tolerate some time spent on their own, they may develop destructive bad habits like chewing or digging if they are left alone too often. Because of their high socialization needs, the Kuvasz’s behavior and temperament may suffer as well. Make sure you’re prepared to provide for this breed’s physical and mental stimulation before you bring one home.

A post shared by Tamás Kalácsi (@tamaskalacsi)

As we’ve already discussed, training and socialization are where owning a Kuvasz becomes the biggest challenge. Although they are intelligent dogs, the Kuvasz was bred to be an independent thinker since they were often left to protect livestock from predators on their own, far from human direction.
Kuvaszok puppies need training and socialization right from the start if they are to make good family pets. Positive training methods will yield the best results as the Kuvasz doesn’t respond well to punishment or harsh scolding. A lot of patience is needed when training a young Kuvasz because they mature very slowly and are prone to being stubborn.
Developed to live outside in cold weather, the Kuvasz has a thick, fluffy double coat. They are not hypoallergenic dogs and shed a moderate amount. The good news is their grooming needs aren’t complicated or expensive. A thorough brushing once a week will help control the shedding and keep their coat looking fresh.
Your Kuvasz will also benefit from a regular bath, especially if they love to roll in the dirt! Keep their nails trimmed, ears cleaned, and brush their teeth regularly as well. Getting your Kuvasz used to these grooming routines when they are puppies will make things much easier once they grow into a 100-pound adult.

A post shared by Pet Nation Lodge (@petnationlodge)

The Kuvasz is considered a fairly healthy breed for the most part. Like most large dogs, they are commonly afflicted with joint and bone issues. To ensure the continued health of the breed, it’s recommended that breeders have their dogs checked for hip and elbow issues, inherited heart conditions, thyroid disease, and inherited eye conditions.
Don’t be afraid to ask your breeder whether they’ve had their dogs checked. It may save you a lot of future heartache and money! Here are some common health conditions to be on the lookout for in your Kuvasz.
Serious Conditions:
Minor Conditions:
Female Kuvaszok tend to mature a little more quickly than males. Males can be tougher to handle during their “teenage” years but once they do mature, are often more easygoing than adult females. Male Kuvaszok are generally bigger than females as well.
Male Kuvaszok, like most male dogs, can have an issue with urine marking, although neutering usually curbs this messy habit. Female Kuvaszok will go into heat twice a year unless they are spayed.
The Kuvasz is most closely associated with the country of Hungary, where the breed was fine-tuned into the dog we see today. However, the original ancestors of the Kuvasz hail from the mountainous nation of Tibet. Much of the breed’s history is unknown, but they have lived in Hungary since the Middle Ages.
Early in their time in Hungary, the only people allowed to own the Kuvasz were members of the royal circle and those who stayed on their good side.
Fierce loyalty to their families is a defining characteristic of the Kuvasz. A 15th-century Hungarian king, Matthias I, is said to have trusted his pet Kuvaszok dogs more than he did his soldiers. This was probably wise as his reign was reportedly plagued with corruption and disloyalty.

A post shared by Dana (@dana_a_kuvasz)


The Kuvasz isn’t the breed for everyone given their size and sometimes difficult personality. More than many dogs, you’ll have a large part to play in how your pet Kuvasz develops and learns to interact with the world. Don’t take the responsibility lightly and consider carefully if a Kuvasz is the best fit for your family and lifestyle before you are tempted by the white fluff balls they are as puppies!
Featured Image Credit: La Su, Shutterstock
Share
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve PangoVet for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

No stressful travel
Personalized advice
Read more
We are here to help. Simply schedule an appointment by clicking on the button below.
5.0
At PangoVet, we care about you, your pet, and the bond that makes them family. We are here to keep them happy and healthy.
+1 (530) 453-0360[email protected]
2999 Douglas Blvd., Suite 180M, Roseville, CA 95661 United States
Warning: If your pet has suffered a sudden trauma or is experiencing any life-threatening signs, such as breathing difficulties, bleeding, or bloating, don’t waste valuable time and take them to the nearest emergency clinic.
Copyright © 2025 PangoVet. All rights reserved.
Didn't find what you need? Use the search!
Close the search
--------------------------------------------------
