LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Planning on adopting a Leonberger and want to know if Leonbergers are get along with cats?
Learn all about Leonberger cat friendliness and how to make your Leonberger friendlier with cats on this page.



A common mistake a lot of people make is believing that all canines hate cats and all cats hate dogs. This isn’t true and there are lots of dog breeds that are great with cats. Pet dogs that aren’t naturally feline friendly can also be trained to be more safe around cats.
According to experienced Leonberger dog experts, Leonberger dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of cat friendliness.



Regardless of the misconception, a lot of pet dogs and cats can live together comfortably. Follow these simple to follow actions to understand how to best introduce your Leonberger with a cat.


Not all Leonbergers despise felines, some get along with them. When Leonbergers do hate felines, of the most typical factor is quite straightforward. Like all dogs, Leonbergers still keep a few of the hunting tendencies that they were originally bred for. This is why Leonbergers like chasing after all moving objects, whether it’s a toy, mouse, or a cat.
Considering that most felines will escape when they encounter, it’s simple to see why they are known for not getting along with each other. Leonbergers in fact delight in chasing cats not since they dislike them, however primarily since a fast running animal activates a strong, natural behavioral instinct to chase after overcomes any training or socialisation.


Educating your Leonberger to stop chasing felines takes time, practice and consistency, but the reward of not having to fret about them constantly chasing after is well worth it. Here are the phases of how to stop your Leonberger from chasing after felines.


The best method to guarantee your Leonberger would never ever kill a feline is to raise them with cats when they’re a puppy prior to 3 months old. At this age, they will generally want to have fun with the cats and will not see them as prey.
If your Leonberger has eliminated a cat previously, its best if you keep them in an open, fenced off area. When taking them for walks try to stop going after sunset and before dawn since that’s when felines are most active and most likely to be wandering the neighborhoods.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: BIGANDT.COM, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 29, 2025 by Radim Chudej
Click Below to Skip Ahead
A massive and regal-looking dog breed, the Leonberger might be right up your alley if you’re looking to bring a new pet into your home. They’re massive dogs resembling a lion in many ways, but their personality is loving and sweet, making them the best of both worlds.
But while Leonbergers have plenty of great traits, there are also quite a few that should make you think twice before getting one.
Height:
25.5 – 31.5 inches
Weight:
90 – 170 pounds
Lifespan:
8 – 9 years
Colors:
Yellow, red, reddish brown, or sandy
Suitable for:
Active families, first-time dog owners, and those who want a giant dog
Temperament:
Loyal, intelligent, easy to train, friendly, and driven
With a rich history that stretches back to Germany, a period where the dog almost went extinct, and a size and appearance no other dog breed can match, it’s no wonder that so many people are in awe of the Leonberger. This is especially true when you look at how loyal and loving these pups are, even if they need quite a bit of space to roam. However, there are a lot of fascinating facts about them, and if you’re considering bringing one into your home, you need to know all the ins and outs before you commit.

No matter how you look at it, the Leonberger isn’t the most common dog breed in the world. They’re relatively rare since a massive dip in popularity following World War II, and it’s estimated that there are only 30,000 Leonbergers in the world today.1
This means that if you are looking to adopt a Leonberger, you’ll need to do a little more homework to track down a reputable breeder, and you may need to travel to get one.
With that in mind it’s important to realize that you still shouldn’t skimp on breeder standards, so inspect the facility, reach out to references, and get health guarantees, even if it means going through all the hard work of trying to track down another breeder.
Leonbergers should also come with some form of formal recognition from a group like the American Kennel Club (AKC). Finally, ensure the parents have a clean bill of health; otherwise, you could wind up paying far more on the overall vet bills for your pup in the future.
Leonberger is a city in Germany, and as you might suspect, this is where the Leonberger dog breed originated. The first Leonberger dog appeared in the city in 1846. The pup’s original purpose was to possess a lion-like appearance that matched the appearance on the crest of Leonberg. While it’s not an exact match, it’s close.
The breed almost went extinct following World War I, and the breed’s popularity took a hit again during World War II. But through breeders’ determination to keep the breed going, it’s started to gain a little in popularity, even if they’re still not the most common or most popular dog breed.

You won’t find a more loyal, loving, and intelligent dog than the Leonberger. All they want is all the attention and love you’re willing to give them, and with an unrivaled eagerness to please their owners, there isn’t much you can’t train them to do.
And while they’re among the largest dogs in the world, they still are lap dogs at heart, enjoying a good cuddle as often as you can give it to them. Of course, their larger size means you might not want them on your lap, so it’ll be up to you to show them a different way to cuddle and still get your undivided attention.
The Leonberger is a phenomenal dog breed for families. They’re large enough dogs to where you don’t need to worry about small children hurting them, yet they’re aware of their larger size, so they don’t accidentally trample kids.
They’re also extremely loving and will take attention from anyone willing to give it to them, which is a huge perk when you have lots of people in your home.
While the Leonberger generally gets along great with kids and other people, that’s not always the case with other pets, especially other dogs. They’ll typically get along fine with other dogs in their family, but they can sometimes get aggressive with dogs they don’t know.
We highly recommend socializing with them early on to help with this, and always complete a supervised meet and greet when introducing them to other animals.

Big dogs have big appetites, and the Leonberger is certainly no exception. Even the smallest Leonbergers need about 5 cups of high-quality kibble daily, while larger Leonbergers can need up to 8 cups of kibble daily, but this largely depends on how active they are.
No matter how you look at it, that’s a lot of food! If you’re thinking about feeding them wet food, you might want to think again because they’ll need quite a few of these per day, and wet food tends to be more expensive.
There’s nothing wrong with feeding them a kibble diet, just ensure it’s nutritionally complete and high-quality; otherwise, you could be inviting health problems down the road.
The Leonberger’s size is impressive, this is a massive dog breed, and because this, they really don’t need a ton of exercise. Often one or two walks that last between 15 and 20 minutes each should be more than enough.
However, the tradeoff is that because of their massive size, they need a large yard to run around and play in. You won’t be able to meet their exercise needs inside your home. We don’t recommend getting a Leonberger unless you have a large outdoor space where they can run around and play throughout the day.
Overall, the Leonberger is extremely loving and eager to please, but because of their larger size, it’s important to train them early on and keep up with their training throughout their life.
Consistency is critical, so aim for a daily training session that lasts between 10 and 15 minutes. Stick solely with positive reinforcement and bring some of their favorite treats to really lock in their attention.
We don’t care how much you brush out your Leonberger, the amount of hair they shed will surprise you. They’re constantly growing and shedding hair. You must brush them every day, but even with this, you’ll find hair all over the place.
In addition to the constant brushing and shedding that comes with a Leonberger, you’ll need to brush their teeth at least once a day to keep up with their oral hygiene, as well as keep an eye on their nails so that you can trim them as needed.
While the Leonberger is great in a ton of different ways, one unfortunate drawback to this massive pup is the litany of health conditions they often come with. Compounding the issue is that it usually isn’t minor conditions.
Keeping up with their exercise requirements and visiting the vet can help, but unfortunately, it’s often only a matter of time before they develop a serious condition.
While there aren’t many personality differences between male and female Leonbergers, one area where they differ quite drastically is their size. Males are often much larger than females.
In fact, males can be as large as 170 pounds, while females can be almost half that size at just 90 pounds. Of course, smaller males can stand at just 110 pounds, so it’s possible to have a smaller male Leonberger. Just know that whether they’re a male or female, the Leonberger is still a massive dog!

One look at a Leonberger’s paws will show you they have webbed feet, which is a tell-tale sign of a dog that loves the water. Webbed feet help them swim, and you’ll be hard-pressed to find a Leonberger who doesn’t love the water.
While there’s no such thing as a “small” Leonberger, females can be almost half the size of some males. They’ll still weigh close to 100 pounds, but that’s a far cry from the 170 pounds larger Leonbergers weigh.
Most modern-day Leonbergers don’t have a job to do, but they love having a task to complete. Whether it’s a job as a watchdog, pulling a cart, or something else entirely, Leonbergers love having a purpose.

While the Leonberger is a beautiful and awe-inspiring pooch, we highly recommend thinking it through before bringing one into your home. While they can be easy to care for in so many ways, their massive size means they can also be a bit more work.
It’s a big investment, but with such sweet and loving personalities, we think they’re well worth it.
Featured Image Credit: BIGANDT.COM, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Adam is a professional freelance writer and animal enthusiast who has rescued countless animals  throughout the years. He's been a freelance writer for ten years and has been rescuing animals  for even longer! Adam is also a proud father of three kids and is always up for a challenge and adventure!
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Leonberger is a large and powerful dog breed with a history dating back to the 19th century. It was developed by politician and entrepreneur named Heinrich Essig in Leonberg, Germany. He crossed St. Bernards, Newfoundlands, and Great Pyrenees dogs. The breed was initially bred to resemble the lion on the town's crest, and it quickly gained popularity as a majestic and versatile working and companion dog. Napoleon III, Tsar Alexander II and King Edward VII all added the Leonberger to their royal court. Leonbergers are used as working dogs on farms, pastures and waterfronts. They are surprisingly good swimmers and are very good at pulling carts, some Leonbergers have also been used as rescue dogs in Canada.
Leonbergers are large dogs that are susceptible to bloat, also known as gastric dilation volvulus (GDV). This is a life-threatening condition that can come on suddenly, so it’s important to know the warning signs and get an affected dog immediate veterinary care. This breed may also suffer from cancer, cataracts, heart problems, hip dysplasia, juvenile-onset polyneuropathy, and thyroid problems.
Leonbergers are known for their gentle, calm, and friendly nature. They are highly devoted to their family members and are excellent with children, making them great family pets. Despite their imposing size, they are typically gentle giants and are not aggressive. They are intelligent, trainable, and eager to please, which makes them suitable candidates for various activities such as obedience, therapy work, and water rescue. Their long coats shed a lot and should be brushed daily.
Lifesaving Abilities: Leonbergers have a history of being water rescue dogs. They are known for their strong swimming abilities and were once used to rescue drowning people.Celebrities' Choice: Several notable figures throughout history, including Napoleon II, Empress Elisabeth of Austria, and King Umberto I of Italy, have owned and admired Leonbergers.Leonbergers have a double coat, with a dense and water-resistant outer coat and a thick undercoat. Their fur is moderately long, straight, and slightly wavy. The mane around the neck and chest area is more pronounced in males, giving them a more majestic appearance.
https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/leonberger/ https://www.petmd.com/dog/breeds/c_dg_leonberger
  https://www.pawprintgenetics.com/products/breeds/271/   https://www.fci.be/en/nomenclature/LEONBERGER-145.html  https://www.ukcdogs.com/leonberger
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
The Leonberger is truly a gentle giant, and makes an ideal family dog for those with the space to accommodate such an enormous pet. Now classed as a working or utility dog, legend has it that the breed was developed for appearance rather than function, as the breed’s founder sought to produce a dog resembling a lion. If this is true, it is remarkable that such an effort produced one of the gentlest and most affectionate breeds known today. Leonbergers are more energetic and graceful than many other giant breeds, and for their size, produce remarkably little drool, which can be an issue with some of its cousins, for example, the St. Bernard.
They require a reasonable amount of exercise, and early lead training is essential to ensure they are easy to control. With such a large and heavy frame, this is a dog which can take even the strongest owner for a walk in a sheer battle of strength. The striking double coat, which does resemble a lion’s mane in some individuals, sheds moderately year-round, and heavily in the spring and autumn, and thus, requires regular grooming.
As an intimidating physical presence, and with a deep, booming bark, most Leonbergers will serve very well as guard dogs, although truly aggressive behaviour is very rare in this breed. They are usually very tolerant of other pets, and so are suitable for most family situations. Unfortunately, being a giant breed, they are not especially long-lived, and have a life expectancy of 7–10 years.
Heinrich Eisig is generally accepted as the breed’s founder. As the mayor of the German town of Leonberg, it is said that he desired a dog with regal ‘leonine’ qualities to feature on a rebranded version of the town’s coat of arms. Unable to find such a dog, he went about creating one himself, beginning his breeding programme in 1846. The exact mixture of genes which went into creating the breed is, of course, the subject of much debate, but Eisig himself claimed to have produced the first Leonbergers through a series of crosses between Landseers, St. Bernards, and Pyrenean Mountain Dogs.
The St. Bernard of the day was quite different from the modern version of the breed, which was extensively out-crossed to produce the dog with the large, blocky head which we now see. It can be seen from imprints at the time that the St. Bernard had a high, domed head, much more similar to that of the Leonberger. However, it is believed that early Leonbergers exhibited a variety of coat colours which would be impossible to achieve from this relatively narrow gene pool, and so many authorities contend that other breeds must have been involved in the early breeding programme.
Eisig promoted the breed heavily, gifting Leonberg puppies to royalty and celebrities, and thus establishing a considerable fan-base, and by the 1880s he was breeding and exporting more than 300 puppies a year. However, tough times lay ahead for the Leonberger, as the breed was almost wiped out by World War I, with only a small population remaining, and with apparently all written genealogical records destroyed. Thankfully, most of these survivors were gathered by a small number of enthusiasts who set about reestablishing a healthy breeding population. Disaster struck again with the loss of all but eight dogs in World War II, and it is from these eight dogs that the modern Leonberger has descended.
The breed has only very recently been recognised by many international bodies, and was first registered with the Kennel Club in 1988, and by the American Kennel Club in 2010.
Leonbergers are very tall dogs, quite long-limbed in proportion to the overall body shape. They have a fairly long, and quite coarse coat, which consists of a long outer layer, and a closer, softer undercoat. The coat is quite weatherproof, and comes in several recognised colour variations:
All colours in between these shades are accepted by the Kennel Club, but all dogs should have a dark ‘mask’ around the muzzle and eyes, sometimes extending to black ear tips. There is marked disparity in the appearance of males and females, with the males appearing more heavy-set and coarse, and the females appropriately more feminine and refined in their facial features.
The head is well-proportioned, being strong and domed, but not excessively broad or square. The muzzle is moderately wide with snug lips which do not droop in the manner of other giant breeds. The bite should be neat and scissor-like. The eyes are hazel to dark brown, and are set a little obliquely, conveying a kind expression. The ears are not overly large, and are set quite high and flat on the side of the head. The Leonberger’s chest should be deep, as should the abdomen, which is only slightly tucked to the pelvic brim, while the legs are well-boned and powerful. The neck and back are strong and broad, particularly in the lower back. The tail is carried slightly down, but with an upward curve.
Males are generally around 72–80 cm (28–32 in) tall at the withers, and weigh between 56 and 62 kg (123–136 lb), while females are usually 65–75 cm (26–30 in) tall and weigh 50–56 kg (110–123 lb).
A plethora of complimentary adjectives can be applied to the Leonberger. The breed as a whole tends to be gentle, kind, affectionate, loving, and playful. Despite their large size, they are reserved enough in play to be able to interact with even young children, although simply because of their bulk, they should always be supervised. With this comes a natural inclination to submissiveness, and most will defer to even the youngest member of the family, being quick to roll over and show their bellies.
Indeed, it is very unusual for a Leonberger to get involved in any sort of confrontation, and no matter the adversary, it is generally the ‘Leo’ that gives way and allows the other part to have their way. In spite of these qualities, young pups are inclined to being ‘mouthy’, and it is important that this is discouraged, as even a gentle, playful nip from one of these dogs has the potential to cause significant injury.
Leonbergers are moderately easy to train, being excitable and boisterous as puppies, and finding it hard to concentrate on one task for a prolonged period of time. As adults, they are extremely biddable, and will aim to please, without necessarily excelling at obedience work.
Lead walking is a skill which must be mastered in puppyhood, as an adult Leonberger is potentially too strong to pay any attention to the puny human tugging at the other end of the leash. Similarly, early socialisation with people and animals, with positive reinforcement, will prevent any potentially scary confrontations in later life.
Several health problems are common in the Leonberger breed, notably hormone disorders and certain types of cancer. In addition, the breed suffers from a unique neurological condition.
Also known as ‘hot spots’, this severe, localised inflammatory reaction, which is usually caused by insect bites, appears suddenly as deeply infected and ulcerated areas of skin. Clumps of hair may be rapidly lost from the area, and the dog is usually severely irritated. Treatment involves a combination of topical and systemic treatments, including antibiotics and steroid. Clipping the wet hair from around the area is also usually very helpful.
Commonly known as Addison’s disease, this condition is caused by immune-mediated inflammation of the adrenal glands. These glands, which are located just in front of each kidney, are responsible for producing cortisol in response to all sorts of daily stresses. Damage to the adrenal gland dramatically lowers not only cortisol levels, but also levels of other hormones, known as mineralocorticoids, which are responsible for regulating salt levels and blood volume.
Many dogs with Addison’s disease may have recurrent bouts of gastrointestinal upsets, while others may present acutely collapsed and with blood volume depletion, requiring treatment for shock. With recognition and diagnosis, hypoadrenocorticism can usually be successfully treated and managed for years.
Leonbergers are one of many breeds predisposed to weakening and rupture of this ligament, which is vital in the normal function of the knee joint. Genetically predisposed dogs may experience ligament rupture at a young age (less than one year), or later in life, in response to minor trauma. Various treatment approaches are possible, but surgery is generally required to prevent the injury causing long-term injury to the joint through instability.
This syndrome actually represents at least two distinct genetic disorders, and work is underway to identify the genes involved, in order to try to remove them from breeding lines.
Many Leonbergers suffer from chronically irritated and itchy skin, particularly affecting the ear canals and groin. Most cases are atopic, meaning that the allergy is a reaction to inhaled allergens. These allergens can be of many different types, with household mites, moulds, and plant pollens commonly implicated.
Prevention of exposure to the allergen is ideal, but often not possible. Allergy testing, as well as a food trial on a hypoallergenic diet, are mandatory parts of the investigation of skin disease in the breed.
Visual impairment may occur due to the formation of opaque cataracts in the lens of one or both eyes. If this impairment is severe, surgery may be considered, but requires intervention by a highly qualified veterinary ophthalmologist.
In common with many of the larger breeds, the Leonberger has suffered a great deal of trouble with developmental hip disorders over the years. However, efforts to remove badly affected individuals from the breeding lines have been largely successful, and this is much less of an issue now than it has been in the past.
Nonetheless, prospective buyers of Leonberger puppies should still insist on seeing a hip scoring certificate from both parents, as this is a debilitating disorder in such a large breed of dog should it develop.
A cancerous growth affecting the long bones of the legs. Most commonly arising close to the shoulder, wrist, or knee joints, osteosarcoma is usually very painful and presents as a severe lameness. It is also a very aggressive form of cancer, and has usually spread to distant sites at the time of first detection.
Reduced thyroid hormone production as a result of lymphocytic autoimmune thyroid disease can exacerbate skin problems, cause alopecia and coat changes, reduce energy levels, and lead to obesity. This is most commonly first noticed in middle-aged dogs, and may be treated with thyroid hormone supplementation.
This tumour of blood vessels is more common in Leonbergers than in most other breeds. Growths usually occur on the spleen (an organ within the abdomen), but can also appear on the heart or in the skin. These masses are fragile, and bleed easily and often very heavily.
The first sign of a haemangiosarcoma is often a dog which is suddenly unable to stand and is breathless, due to internal blood loss. Tumours on the spleen and in the skin can be surgically removed, but have often spread by the time of diagnosis.
A genetic predisposition exists in the breed for abnormal development of cartilage in the knee, shoulder, and ankle (hock) joints. This may cause lameness, and can result in the formation of loose flaps of cartilage floating in the joint fluid (these are known as ‘joint mice’).
Good nutrition and avoiding excessive exercise in young pups can help prevent this condition from developing, and treatment may involve surgery, depending on the joint affected, as well as the presence or absence of joint mice.
The breed needs a fair amount of exercise, and a good-sized outdoor area is a must for additional freedom. Around an hour of brisk lead walking is the minimum amount that must be factored into each day. If it is possible to supplement this with other activities; so much the better. Leonbergers are usually strong swimmers, and will enjoy taking to the water if given the opportunity.
The coat is quite weatherproof, and as such, will usually stay reasonably clean and pleasant-smelling. However, such a big dog simply has a lot of hair, and regular brushing (at least twice a week) is advisable to prevent matts and build-up of loose hair. Expect a heavy moult at least twice a year, during which time the dog will shed far more than usual for up to several weeks.
It is important to be able to perform basic health tasks with your dog, whatever their size, and so Leonberger puppies should learn to accept having their teeth brushed, nails clipped, and ears handled and cleaned.
The Leonberger has been the pet of choice for many of the rich and famous, as well as being a star in its own right:
At the time of writing, there are no known or reputable cross breeds of Leonbergers. The breed itself is a crossbreed of sorts, however, as it was originally crossed over time with the Newfoundland, St. Bernard and Pyrenean Mountain Dog to create the Leonberger that we know and love today.
Copyright © 2016 - 2019 DogZone.com - Privacy | Authors | Contact
--------------------------------------------------
Despite its intimidating size, the Leonberger dog is a perfect, cheerful, and excellent companion. He can quickly be taken for walks and other activities. They can be considered excellent guards at home because they have a balanced character. They are useful to all members of the owner’s family and to other animals that live in the territory.
The Leonberger dog is associated with the city of Leonberg in southwestern Germany. There Heinrich Essig wanted to create a dog that would resemble a lion in appearance, depicting the city depicted on the coat of arms.
The crossing of the Newfoundland and Saint Bernard produced the first ancestor of the Leonberger; then, the corner also involved the Pyrenean mountain dog.
Officially, Leonberger was born in 1846. Soon the dogs gained popularity throughout the world in high society circles and became real human pets. In the nineteenth century, dogs were used as guard dogs and protective dogs in farms.
During World War II, many dogs disappeared, and the breed was on the verge of extinction; very few purebred dogs survived. Now the dog is widely used in Europe and America.
A large, strong dog does resemble a lion in appearance. It is due to the long, shaggy hair and large body.
Males differ from females in many ways. For example, the size. The height of males usually reaches 72-80 cm, and the height of bitches 65-75 cm. A male dog’s weight is 59-77 kg, while a female dog is 45-59 kg.
The ears of a Leonberger are tight to the head. The body is wide and embossed. Leonberger has a two-layer coat, which consists of a fluffy undercoat and a very long coat. A little waviness is allowed.
The thick coat can form a mane, combing. The color can be very diverse: yellow, red, sandy, reddish-brown, and all combinations of these colors, always with a black mask. There may be light hairs on the paws.
Despite its intimidating size, the Leonberger dog is a perfect, cheerful, and excellent companion. He can quickly be taken for walks and other activities.
They can be considered excellent guards at home because they have a balanced character. They are useful to all members of the owner’s family and to other animals that live in the territory. They are easy to train, distrustful of strangers, and can react quickly and make decisions.
Leonberger is very fond of children, and whether they are family children or other people’s children, they can be used as babysitters. They are very wise and are not jealous of their owner’s other pets.
The best home for this breed would be a private yard with an aviary. Because of their large size, it would be challenging to keep them in an apartment.
It is necessary to devote at least 2 hours every day to a walk because it will positively affect the musculoskeletal system. Their thick coat means they can handle all weather conditions with ease. A Leonberger requires constant contact with people, so you should never fence him off from access to the house.
Several times a week, you need to brush a thick coat with unique products. Bath no more than twice a year, preferably during the molting period. After bathing, the dog should be dried and combed thoroughly.
Once a week, you should brush his ears and check the condition of his eyes and mouth. In summer, it is recommended to take your dog out on a lake or river or equip a small pool, because a Leonberger is an excellent swimmer.
When the puppy gets used to his family and his new home from an early age, you need to teach him easy commands and teach him socialization. The only disadvantage in training is the natural slowness of these dogs. They tend to take a long time to think and execute commands after a while. Functional training should begin at four months of age.
The Leonberger dog has robust health, but you need to keep an eye on the skin, because dermatitis and allergies can occur. Like all large dogs, the Leonberger can have problems with arthritis and hip dysplasia.
It is recommended to feed an adult dog twice a day – in the morning and the evening. The diet should include meat, sea fish, by-products, vegetables (except cabbage), kefir, fruits.
Copyright © 2025 fello.pet |
| Privacy policy
--------------------------------------------------
