Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share
Height:
9 – 11 inches
Weight:
13 – 18 pounds
Lifespan:
12 – 15 years
Colors:
Black, black and tan, cream, golden, grizzle, red, red gold, white
Suitable for:
Apartment dwellers, families with kids, people in cold climates, owners able to spend more time on a dog
Temperament:
Adaptable, Protective, Affectionate, Intelligent, Vocal
Few breeds come with a more dignified history than the Lhasa Apso. In the misty past of the Himalayas, more than a thousand years ago, Lhasa Apsos were already serving as guard dogs for Buddhist monasteries, alerting the monks with a chorus of barks whenever a stranger appeared. Variously said to be reincarnated monks or descendants of Tibet’s mythical snow lions, Lhasa Apsos were introduced to the West as gifts from the 13th and 14th Dalai Lamas.
In the modern-day, Lhasas are perhaps the dog world’s most unlikely guards. Despite looking like mustachioed mops, their wiry muscles and hyper-focused senses make them a force to be reckoned with. They’re not exactly low-maintenance — their long coats require a lot of grooming, and they can be grouchy and suspicious. Retaining their protective instincts, Lhasas love to bark.
They’re also stubborn and willful, but if properly socialized, there’s no canine companion more loyal than a Lhasa. In this guide, we’ll teach you the best ways to have a loving, rewarding relationship with these decidedly non-Zen puppies.

Lhasas’ unique looks and legendary pedigrees keep them in high demand. Healthy Lhasa Apsos are generally found at high prices. If a breeder is trying to sell you a Lhasa Apso for a couple of hundred dollars, odds are that either they’re not a purebred Lhasa Apso or that they are part of a puppy mill or backyard breeder. Quality breeders will check every dog’s health and screen them for common illnesses. Also, a reputable breeder should be willing to let you visit the breeding facilities before asking for any payments.
When you bring a Lhasa Apso into your home, be ready to have an affectionate and sweet dog by your side. They tend to be quite vocal so be prepared for that. These dogs have a very long lifespan and are generally very healthy dogs, so remember that having a Lhasa Apso will be a long-term commitment to a loving and playful animal.
Ever since Buddhism reached Tibet in approximately the 7th century, some Tibetans have held that Lamas (Tibetan Buddhist spiritual leaders) who fail to reach Nirvana are reincarnated as Lhasa Apsos. Traditionally, all 14 Dalai Lamas have kept Lhasa Apsos as pets.
Lhasas given as gifts by the Dalai Lama to the rulers of China were used to breed similar-looking Shih Tzus and Pekingese. When they first arrived on the world stage, confused Westerners interbred Lhasas, Pekingese, and Shih Tzus, until the American Kennel Club established breeding standards in the 1930s.
People who have never met a Lhasa, and have only seen the breed in pictures, tend to imagine that they’re furniture-like lapdogs. Nothing could be farther from the truth. A Lhasa isn’t a breed you can take home and forget about — they need to be pleased on their own terms. This is not to say they can’t be loving, loyal, and playful, but Lhasas need to be met halfway.
The most important thing to know about Lhasa Apsos is that they think they’re much bigger than they are. In its heart, your cute little mop-like Lhasa knows full well that it’s actually a snow lion of the great Himalayas — and snow lions never play fetch or give snuggles unless they feel like it.
It might sound like we’re being harsh on the breed, but we promise we’re not. We just want you to know what you’re getting into before you spend any money and time. Lhasas’ independence, intelligence, and fierce devotion have won them die-hard fans. They love to cuddle, walk, explore, and play like any other dog, just on their own terms.
It’s also important to note that even purebreds aren’t defined by their breed. There’s plenty of variation between one Lhasa and the next. Some might be professional barkers, while others are more reserved; some love playtime, while others prefer a nap. As always, there’s no substitute for meeting the puppy and its parents before you agree to take it home.
To keep a Lhasa Apso in a house with children, you have to start socializing it with its family from as young an age as possible. See our section on training below to learn about the best ways to do that. If not rigorously trained, a Lhasa will respond poorly to rowdy younger children, often growling and nipping unless it’s taught not to.
Once trained, older Lhasas shed much of their stubbornness around their families. Freed of the need to be suspicious of everyone in the house, they can be clownish and playful, not to mention big lovers of adventure.
Lhasa Apsos that are correctly socialized as puppies can easily make friends with other dogs, and even with cats. No matter how friendly it is with the other members of the pack, a Lhasa always likes to be in charge. Lhasas are so confident in their largeness that we’ve often seen them leading around dogs that are many times larger than they are.
Be careful, though, since an untrained Lhasa is likely to react to other pets the same way he reacts to strangers: with guarded skepticism and sometimes even hostility. Don’t leave them unsupervised with other dogs or cats until you’re sure they can handle it.

The most important nutrients for a Lhasa Apso are protein and fat. Feed them a dry kibble made of real, fatty meat, with a bit of grain-free wet food or cooked meat mixed in. Try different kinds of meat to see which one your Lhasa likes best.
It’s also a good idea to incorporate some non-meat sources of fat and protein. Yogurt and eggs are the best ideas. When you buy a Lhasa puppy, don’t forget to ask the breeder what the best diet plan will be.
Feeding should be as regular as possible, either once or twice a day, and should be accompanied by constantly available fresh water. Don’t leave food out around the clock. While generally healthy, Lhasas are prone to digestive issues and obesity if they eat too much.
This is one area in which your Lhasa Apso’s certainty that it’s really a 200-pound behemoth will actually work in your favor. While Lhasas are energetic dogs, they’re so eager to walk that they spend all their energy at once, and are usually tuckered out within 20 minutes.
They’re also great at taking themselves for walks. A Lhasa can be happy for hours in a fenced-in yard. Don’t feel that you need to supervise them constantly, since digging is not a real problem with this breed. Lhasas are happy to live in apartments, too, but make sure you have a lot of toys so they remain intellectually stimulated.
Lhasas also do well with more complex physical training like agility events. They’re more than capable of joining in human activities like hiking, though you should watch to make sure they don’t push themselves too hard.

A post shared by Leo the Lhasa apso (@leo.thelhasa)

Lhasas are extremely smart and are capable of critical thinking, so if a training program is irregular or the consequences are arbitrary, they’ll notice and refuse to go along.
The best way to train a Lhasa puppy to adopt a subservient role is to reward it for using its guarding powers in positive ways. Don’t forget that Lhasas have 1,500 years of programming that teaches them to protect their masters, remain alert, and bark at threats. You’re not going to erase all that in an afternoon. Instead, use consistent positive reinforcement to help them guard your family on your terms.
Many Lhasas that show promise go on to train as therapy dogs. If your Lhasa is doing well in obedience training, therapeutic training can reinforce what it’s learned, while giving the two of you an activity you can enjoy together.
The Lhasa Apso has a long coat, so it’s important that grooming not be an afterthought. Thoroughly go over your Lhasa’s coat with a stiff brush and comb at least once a day to keep painful mats from forming.
You can have a groomer cut the coat short to make this easier, though it doesn’t hurt the Lhasa to leave it long. If you find your brush is still snagging in your Lhasa’s coat, conditioner sprays can be a big help.
Every two to four weeks, you’ll need to give your Lhasa a bath. Shampoo and rinse its coat thoroughly, and follow the bath up with a vigorous brushing, since mats can form even in clean fur. If you just can’t make your Lhasa take to water, dry shampoo can also work, and of course, there’s no shame in hiring a professional groomer.
As for non-coat maintenance, brush your Lhasa’s teeth at least twice a week, and check its eyes, ears, nose, mouth, and paws at least weekly. Inflammation or sensitivity in those spots is an early sign of infection, so if you see any, schedule a vet appointment right away.
Like we said above, the Lhasa Apso is one of the healthiest purebreds and is famous for its long life expectancy. Most reach their teens, and many live into their early 20s. However, there are still some health problems to be aware of.
Allergies: These should be taken just as seriously in dogs as they are in humans. Ask your breeder about any known allergies and plan your Lhasa’s diet and activities around them.
Kidney dysfunction: Kidney failure is genetic in Lhasas, and unfortunately, there’s not yet a reliable test to discover if a puppy carries the gene. However, breeders have made a major dent in the problem by removing known carriers from their programs, and they should be able to tell you about their countermeasures if you ask.
Hip dysplasia: Another genetic disease common in Lhasa Apsos, hip dysplasia causes one or more hip joints to grow improperly, raising the risk of arthritis. This can limit the Lhasa’s ability to walk, so it’s often treated surgically.
Sebaceous adenitis: Called “SA,” this ailment can be difficult to spot because its symptoms look a lot like an allergic reaction. SA is a skin condition that causes dry skin, hair loss, infections, and bad smells. There’s no cure for SA, but it can be treated with topical creams and oils.
Progressive retinal atrophy: This disease causes progressive blindness in Lhasas, starting at night and spreading into the day. If your Lhasa begins going blind, make sure to keep its surroundings consistent, and it will be able to adapt using its memories and other senses.
Patellar luxation: Also called a trick knee, this is when a knee joint shifts out of its usual arrangement. While very common in Lhasa Apsos, it’s not always painful or even noticeable for them. If your Lhasa is in pain from a luxated patella, it can be fixed with surgery.
Obesity: When Lhasas overeat, they run the risk of gaining too much weight, which in turn raises their susceptibility to many other diseases. Take care to only feed your Lhasa at regular mealtimes. Obesity can be treated with a special diet and exercise.
Minor Conditions

 Patellar luxation
 Obesity
 Cherry eye

Serious Conditions

 Allergies
 Kidney dysfunction
 Hip dysplasia
 Sebaceous adenitis
 Progressive retinal atrophy



Male vs Female
Male Lhasa Apsos are slightly larger and heavier than females, and frequently have bigger appetites to go with it. Males also express their independence more readily than females and can take more work to train. However, they also more readily form a strong bond with a single owner.
Females bond more easily with multiple humans at once. When trained, they’re more likely to react to negative stimuli with cowering and shyness, which can close them off to further training.
As with all breeds, there’s significant personality overlap. Furthermore, spaying or neutering your Lhasa Apso (which your breeder should have done already) will get rid of many of the negative traits of both genders, such as being unmanageable while in heat.


Conclusion
Lhasa Apsos have a reputation that befits their long and noble history. Whether they’re snow lions, reincarnated priests, or just adorable pups with egos the size of Mt. Everest, Lhasas are unique, devoted dogs that are beloved by unique, devoted people.
If you buy a Lhasa, it will become your project. You’ll be training it, grooming it, exercising it, and socializing it for a while. But if you put in the work, your Lhasa will reward you ten times over, becoming a playmate, confidant, adventure buddy, and fearsome guard dog — all rolled into one tiny mop.

Featured Image Credit: Needpix
ContentsLhasa Apso Puppies3 Little-Known Facts About the Lhasa Apso1. Lhasa Apsos are said to be reincarnated Buddhist priests.2. Lhasas are ancestors of several other breeds.3. Lhasas are strongly independent.Temperament & Intelligence of the Lhasa Apso 🧠Are These Dogs Good for Families? 🏡Does This Breed Get Along with Other Pets? 🐶 😽Things to Know When Owning a Lhasa Apso:Food & Diet Requirements 🦴Exercise 🐕Training 🦮Grooming ✂️Health and Conditions ❤️Male vs FemaleConclusion           How useful was this post?               Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)                                 Submit Rating                  Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!       Your feedback really matters.          What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?            Submit Feedback



Male Lhasa Apsos are slightly larger and heavier than females, and frequently have bigger appetites to go with it. Males also express their independence more readily than females and can take more work to train. However, they also more readily form a strong bond with a single owner.
Females bond more easily with multiple humans at once. When trained, they’re more likely to react to negative stimuli with cowering and shyness, which can close them off to further training.
As with all breeds, there’s significant personality overlap. Furthermore, spaying or neutering your Lhasa Apso (which your breeder should have done already) will get rid of many of the negative traits of both genders, such as being unmanageable while in heat.

Lhasa Apsos have a reputation that befits their long and noble history. Whether they’re snow lions, reincarnated priests, or just adorable pups with egos the size of Mt. Everest, Lhasas are unique, devoted dogs that are beloved by unique, devoted people.
If you buy a Lhasa, it will become your project. You’ll be training it, grooming it, exercising it, and socializing it for a while. But if you put in the work, your Lhasa will reward you ten times over, becoming a playmate, confidant, adventure buddy, and fearsome guard dog — all rolled into one tiny mop.
Featured Image Credit: Needpix
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
Can Cats Eat Kale? Vet-Reviewed Nutrition Facts & FAQ
4 Homemade Grain-Free Cat Treat Recipes (Vet Approved)
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Cats
Cats
Info
© All Rights Reserved Hepper 2025
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
A breed standard is the guideline which describes the ideal characteristics, temperament and appearance including the correct colour of a breed and ensures that the breed is fit for function. Absolute soundness is essential. Breeders and judges should at all times be careful to avoid obvious conditions or exaggerations which would be detrimental in any way to the health, welfare or soundness of this breed.
From time to time certain conditions or exaggerations may be considered to have the potential to affect dogs in some breeds adversely, and judges and breeders are requested to refer to the Breed Watch information related to this breed for details of any such current issues. If a feature or quality is desirable it should only be present in the right measure. However, if a dog possesses a feature, characteristic or colour described as unacceptable, it must not be rewarded in the show ring.


Well balanced, sturdy, heavily coated, without excess.

Gay and assertive.

Alert, steady but somewhat aloof with strangers.

Head furnishings with fall over eyes, but not effecting the dog's ability to see, good whiskers and beard. Skull moderately narrow, falling away behind eyes, not quite flat, but not domed or apple headed. Straight foreface with medium stop. Nose black. Muzzle about 4 cms (1½ ins), but not square; length from tip of nose roughly one third total length from nose to back of skull.

Dark. Medium size, frontally placed, oval, neither large nor full, nor small and sunk. No white showing at base or top.

Pendant, heavily feathered.

Upper incisors close just inside lower i.e. reverse scissor bite. Incisors in a broad and as straight a line as possible. Full dentition desirable.

Strong and well arched.

Shoulders well laid back. Forelegs straight, heavily furnished with hair.

Length from point of shoulders to point of buttocks greater than height at withers. Ribs extending well back. Level topline. Strong loin. Balanced and compact.

Well developed with good muscle. Good angulation. Heavily furnished with hair. Hocks when viewed from behind parallel and not too close together.


High-set, carried well over back but not like a pot-hook. Often a kink at end. Well feathered.

Free and jaunty.

Top coat long, heavy, straight, hard neither woolly nor silky. Moderate undercoat. Coat never impeding action.

Golden, sandy, honey, dark grizzle, slate, smoke, parti-colour, black, white or brown. All equally acceptable.

Ideal height: dogs: 25cms (10 ins) at shoulders; bitches slightly smaller.

Any departure from the foregoing points should be considered a fault and the seriousness with which the fault should be regarded should be in exact proportion to its degree and its effect upon the health and welfare of the dog and on the dog’s ability to perform its traditional work.

Male animals should have two apparently normal testicles fully descended into the scrotum.

Size – The Kennel Club breed standard is a guide and description of the ideal for the breed; the size as described does not imply that a dog will match the measurements given (height or weight). A dog might be larger or smaller than the size measurements stated in the breed standard.
--------------------------------------------------
Collection of all the general dog breed info about Lhasa Apso so you can get to know the breed more.
Inbreeding is common because of its popularity. A new study suggests that inbreeding contributes to the incidence of disease and health problems.
The Lhasa Apso ranks below average in the intelligence ranking of dogs.
This breed's emotional level reflects their owner's feelings and they don't handle punishments well.
The main triggers for barking are fear, attention, alarm, boredom, greeting, separation anxiety, compulsive barking, and defense.
Low  🔽
Between 100 and 200 PSI  🔽
Lhasa Apso bite wounds might not be as severe, but it is still essential to be cautious and prevent any biting incidents.
They are usually not aggressive and very friendly towards children and other animals. To ensure a well-behaved dog, it's essential to learn how to train a Lhasa Apso puppy not to bite from an early age. With proper training and socialization, a Lhasa Apso can be a wonderful addition to any family, providing love and companionship for years to come.
Do Lhasa Apso dogs need a lot of exercises?
If you notice any weight gain, consult your veterinarian and make a diet plan. Reduce unhealthy food and snacks, and measure the Lhasa Apso weight regularly.
Cutting the dog's hair by a professional groomer is essential. Everyday brushing of the dog's coat is necessary to reduce shedding.
Ears and eyes should be cleaned regularly to avoid infections. Don't skip the seasonal flea treatment too. Dog nail trimming and dog bath should be on a weekly schedule.
Taking good care of your Lhasa Apso is time-consuming and requires excellent grooming skills. If you don't have the time and skill search for the best dog groomer or clipping service in your area and book an appointment.
If you notice any change in your dog's drooling habit, you should contact a vet as soon as possible.
Medium  ⏺
Bathing your dog is beneficial to them in more ways than just one. It’s also a good time to look for unusual scratches, bumps, fleas, and other irregularities. When their hair is wet and flat against their body, these details are more visible.
Not really This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for service purposes.
This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for service purposes.
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for service purposes.
Not really This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Not really They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for detection purposes.
They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Not really This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
The Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
Not really Lhasa Apso breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Lhasa Apso breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Not really A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Lhasa Apso is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Not really In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
60-64 days
During this time the females start to attract males. You can notice by swelling vulva and bloody discharge.
The second part is the Estrus when the female is receptive for the male. It lasts for about 3 to 11 days.
The sign of the proestrus part is the soft and enlarged vulva. The discharge decreases and lightens in color.
The third part is the Diestrus. Normally, it occurs around day 14. In this period the female’s discharge changes for vivid red and coming to its end. The vulva returns to average, and she will no longer permit mating.
The fourth part called the Anestrus. The time frame between heat periods normally lasts about six months.
Once a year.
The Lhasa Apso is originated from the Tibet and evolved perfectly for the harsh climate of the Himalayas, around 800 B.C., which makes it one of the oldest recognized breeds in the world. Researchers have proven that the Lhasa is one of the breeds that is closely related to the ancestral wolf such as; Akita, Shiba Inu, Siberian Husky, and many others. The breed takes its name from the holy city of Lhasa and for thousands of years it was bred by nobility and monks and their task was to guard and protect the Buddhist monasteries therefore considered sacred. In their home country, they are also known as “Aspo Seng Kyi”, meaning “Bearded Lion Dog”. According to research, these little dogs were highly prized as people believed that the bodies of the dogs could be entered by the human soul, after death, while they awaited reincarnation into a new body. However, the only way to get a Lhasa back in the times was as a gift, and one could not buy one.
From the beginning of the Manchu Dynasty in the 16th century until as recently as 1908, the Dalai Lama sent Lhasas as gifts to the Emperor of China and members of the imperial family because they were thought to bring them good luck and prosperity.
The breed first entered the West in the early 20th century and was recognized as the ‘Lhasa Terrier’ by the Kennel Club in London in 1908 but the First World War had its effect on breeding. However, the ‘original’ American pair of Lhasas was actually a gift from the 13th Dalai Lama, Thubten Gyatso, to C. Suydam Cutting, a known world traveler, and naturalist, who arrived in the United States in 1933. Mr. Cutting, later on, received another pair of Lhasas from the Tiber and their Hamilton Farms’ Lhasa Apsos were extremely important in establishing the breed in the United States. Two years later, in 1935, the American Kennel Club accepted the breed as the Lhasa Terrier but was re-named Lhasa Apso in 1944. Not much later in 1959, the breed was moved from the terrier group to the non-sporting group.
Today the breed has kind of lost its sentinel status to take its place as a popular show dog and household pet but the little Lhasas still retain the behavior traits that once made them trusted sentinels.
Mar 9, 2022, 11:32:15 AM:
I had one named Koda for a first time owner they are so friendly with your family but wont stay quiet if a stranger enters. People think they can be left alone but no they cant. Plus they are super duper cute
Feb 7, 2022, 5:12:08 AM:
Lhasa Apso is good for first time owners I tested
Jan 13, 2022, 4:43:12 AM:
i had one named zoe she was amazing
Jan 13, 2022, 4:42:11 AM:
they are the best
--------------------------------------------------
Although small, Lhasa Apsos are assertive dogs that do not allow themselves to be bossed about. Their alert nature means they readily let intruders know they are around.
Lhasa Apsos are terriers in everything but name, particularly when it comes to their inquisitive, confident and sociable nature. The word terrier doesn’t appear in their name to avoid confusion with Tibetan Terriers.
Size category: Small
Avg life expectancy: 12-15 years
Friendly / Assertive / Alert / Even-tempered / Reserved
Lhasa Apsos belong to the brachycephalic family that have as physical features a flat face and short nose due to their flat and wide skull shape. These anatomical attributes can cause some health issues like skin, eye and breathing problems as well as a poor ability to tolerate heat. For all brachycephalic breeds, we advise you to choose a dog with physical features that are not over-exaggerated, to buy from a responsible breeder and to seek counsels from your veterinarian.
Puppyhood is a time of massive physical and behavioural change, and a steep learning curve for new owners. Find out how you can provide your puppy with the best start to life so they develop into strong, healthy dogs.
Get advice and information on how to provide the best care for your dog at every stage of life.
Like & share this page
--------------------------------------------------
The Lhasa apso, also known as the lion dog, is a centuries-old breed. Lhasa apsos are well known for their very long hair that sweeps the ground as they walk and would hide their adorable faces if allowed. They make wonderful companions and could be a great addition to your family. Lhasa’s have been bred to be royal watchdogs for hundreds of years, they are loyal guardians of family and home. The Lhasa's protective nature is surprising to those unfamiliar with him, given his small size and long, flowing coat. It doesn't appear that he is fierce at all.
Breed Profile
9 - 11
Inches
80 - 150
Pounds
12-15
Years
health
A genetic condition, hip dysplasia occurs when the ball and socket of the hip joint become malformed. It causes a grating in the joint, and it can make your pup very uncomfortable. There’s also a form of dysplasia that affects the elbows.
Swaying gait, avoids climbing stairs or jumping on furniture, lameness in the hind end, loss of muscle mass in the thighs and gaining more muscle in the shoulders, limping/stiffness, grating in the affected joint, smaller range of motion and activity, and pain.
Supplements, surgery, joint fluid modifiers, restricting exercise, weight loss, anti-inflammatory medication, and glucosamine.
Complications during surgery  & Loss of function in joint due to deterioration
*Hypothetical reimbursement examples illustrate reimbursement of an eligible vet bill at the noted reimbursement rate, assuming the annual deductible had already been met.
Eligible vet bill
$2,400
Reimbursement Rate
Amount a Spot accident & illness plan could cover*
$2,160
Your Net payment
$240
*Hypothetical reimbursement examples illustrate reimbursement of an eligible vet bill at the noted reimbursement rate, assuming the annual deductible had already been satisfied and the annual coverage limit has not yet been met. Annual deductible, co-insurance, benefit and coverage limits, and exclusions may apply. Eligibility may vary. Visit https://spotpet.com/spot-sample-policy.pdf for full terms. For Canada enrollments only, reimbursement rate is based on the pet's age.
health
Glaucoma is an eye condition that tends to be pretty painful. It can affect both humans and dogs, although it isn’t considered an contagious, interspecies disease. A dog must be genetically predisposed. Glaucoma occurs when there isn’t proper fluid drainage in the eye due to pressure.
Blinking, vision loss, redness in the white of the eyes, cloudiness in the eye, dilated pupil, eyeball recedes in the back of the head, degeneration of the eye (In more advanced cases), more pronounced vision in advanced cases, enlarged eyeball in severe instances.
Medication, surgery in extreme cases, draining fluid, freeze cells that produce the fluids, removing the eye.
Permanent loss of vision
Potential eye removal
Eligible vet bill
$1,800
Reimbursement Rate
Amount a Spot accident & illness plan could cover*
$1,620
Your Net payment
$180
*Hypothetical reimbursement examples illustrate reimbursement of an eligible vet bill at the noted reimbursement rate, assuming the annual deductible had already been satisfied and the annual coverage limit has not yet been met. Annual deductible, co-insurance, benefit and coverage limits, and exclusions may apply. Eligibility may vary. Visit https://spotpet.com/spot-sample-policy.pdf for full terms. For Canada enrollments only, reimbursement rate is based on the pet's age.
health
Portosystemic shunt (PSS) is a disorder that affects your pup’s liver. The blood that is supposed to go to the liver instead goes around it, which means the liver can’t clean out toxins and can’t develop properly either.
Gastrointestinal issues like vomiting or diarrhea, difficulty urinating, stunted growth, seizures and other neurological issues, long recovery from anesthesia, fluid collecting in the intestine, and wobbly.
Surgery
Medications
N/A
Eligible vet bill
$3,000
Reimbursement Rate
Amount a Spot accident & illness plan could cover*
$2,700
Your Net payment
$300
*Hypothetical reimbursement examples illustrate reimbursement of an eligible vet bill at the noted reimbursement rate, assuming the annual deductible had already been satisfied and the annual coverage limit has not yet been met. Annual deductible, co-insurance, benefit and coverage limits, and exclusions may apply. Eligibility may vary. Visit https://spotpet.com/spot-sample-policy.pdf for full terms. For Canada enrollments only, reimbursement rate is based on the pet's age.
Comic
In public, they are dignified and reserved, but they are engaging and sometimes funny in private.
Loyal
They are very loyal and will love you and your family only, for life.
Confident
For little dogs, they have big personalities. They are confident and strong willed.
Intelligent
Their intelligence just adds to their strength of character.
Friendly
Although they may not warm to unknown humans, these lap dogs tend to be friendly with other dogs and pets.
Coat
They have a long, silky coat that usually reaches the floor. They shed minimally.
Colors
There are many colors although the most popular are white.
Hypoallergenic
Yes, Lhasa apsos are considered hypoallergenic dogs because they don’t lose tons of hair or have a shedding season.
Grooming
They need to be groomed daily so their fur doesn’t matt. Brushing and combing are both essential to keep their long coat free of tangles.
Training
The best way to train one of these pups is to use the reward system. It might also help to make it into a game so that they will be more inclined to cooperate.
Lifetime Care Cost:
Approximately $25910 (Reviews from dog breed-specific parents)Learn more about the cost of caring for a Lhasa Apso.
Lhasa apsos are well known for their very long hair that sweeps the ground as they walk and would hide their adorable faces if allowed. They make wonderful companions and could be a great addition to your family. If you want to adopt a Lhasa apso, continue reading to learn more about them.
Lhasa Apso’s have been bred to be royal watchdogs for hundreds of years, they are loyal guardians of family and home. The Lhasa's protective nature is surprising to those unfamiliar with them, given their small size and long, flowing coat. It doesn't appear that they are fierce at all.
However, when it comes to protecting their own, the Lhasa is fierce, though never particularly aggressive. Their natural suspicion of strangers makes them an excellent palace guard, and they take their job as protector seriously. As a result of this lionhearted devotion, the lionhearted Lhasa also enjoys sharing their life with their family. In addition, they are intelligent, independent, and mischievous.
Since Lhasa prefers to do things their own way, their goal in life is not necessarily to please you. This distinguishes them from breeds like the biddable Labrador Retriever. Although the Lhasa can be trained successfully, they are not always the most obedient dog. Their smarts and unique reasoning abilities are praised by those who know and love them. As with raising children, consistency is essential when training a Lhasa pup. It is certain that your Lhasa will try to take control if you don't.
The Lhasa is a Tibetan dog whose name comes from the holy city of Lhasa in Tibet. For thousands of years, nobility and monks bred the Lhasa exclusively to protect and guard monasteries. He is called Abso Seng Kye in his homeland, which means "Bark Lion Sentinel Dog. Lhasa’s have thick coats that protect them from extreme cold and heat in their native climate.
Lhasa’s have been recorded as far back as 800 B.C. As a watchdog in temples and monasteries, a Lhasa was considered good luck, but it was nearly impossible to buy one. Lhasa Apsos were believed to have souls that entered their owners' bodies when they died. Unless the Dalai Lama gave them as gifts, Lhasa’s were not allowed to leave the country.
Lhasa Apsos were recognized as a breed by the American Kennel Club in 1935.
The Lhasa apso, also known as the lion dog, is a centuries-old breed. This small dog is originally from the Himalayan Mountains in Tibet, where they lived in monasteries. They were frequently utilized as guard dogs for Tibetan Buddhist monasteries, and their barks would warn the monks of people coming to visit.
They made it to England in the early 1900s. Before getting the name Lhasa apso, they were called Lhasa terriers, and they were thought to be the same breed as the Tibetan terrier.
In the 1930s, the Lhasa apso made it to the United States. Soon, the Tibetan Breeds Association was founded, and they began to sort through the different Tibetan breeds. They recognized the Lhasa apso as its own breed.
Lhasa apsos arrived in America in 1930, after the 13th Dalai Lama, Thubten Gyatso, gave this tiny dog to an American naturalist named C. Suydam Cutting. The American Kennel Club (AKC) listed them as an official breed five years after they arrived in the United States. This ancient breed was initially placed in the terrier group, but in the mid-1900s, the AKC changed their position to the non-sporting group.
Purebred Lhasa apsos can have health problems like:
Kidney dysfunction
Patellar luxation, loose kneecaps.
Progressive retinal atrophy, which can cause blindness.
Distichiasis, which is where eyelashes grow in the wrong place.
Cherry eye, which is when a gland in the eye pops out a little.
Renal cortical hypoplasia, a kidney disorder.
Lhasa apsos love their families very much. At home, they can be comedic. They are very loyal and will love you and your family only, for life. They are excellent companions
For little dogs, they have big personalities. They are confident and strong willed. Their intelligence just adds to their strength of character. They aren’t really aggressive, although they will bark to warn you if someone’s coming.
Lhasa apsos are very intelligent creatures, so much so that they think they know what’s best. They are very stubborn, so you can’t really force them to learn tricks. They learn faster through reward systems such as treats, praise, or extra attention.
If you have a family with small children or friends with children who often visit, you may wonder whether the Lhasa apso will nip at children when trying to play with this little dog.
Children must always be taught to be gentle with pets, so they won’t pull at the Lhasa apso’s hair. However, these dogs are good with children and love to play with them.
Although they may not warm to unknown humans, these lap dogs tend to be friendly with other dogs and pets.
If you want to take them to a dog park, you should find one that separates big pups from the little guys. Lhasa apsos won’t try to cause trouble, but they’re too little to play with the big pups.
In public, they are dignified and reserved, but they are engaging and sometimes funny in private. They aren’t fans of strangers, but they can be more accepting of new people with the proper socialization.
They have a long, silky coat that usually reaches the floor. They shed minimally.
Lhasa apso coat colors:
White
Black
Black and tan
Grizzle
Red Gold
Red
Cream
Golden
There are other colors possible, but these are the ones accepted by the AKC.
Yes, Lhasa apsos are considered hypoallergenic dogs because they don’t lose tons of hair or have a shedding season. People with allergies are sensitive to dander, which is dead skin cells similar to dandruff, and is attached to a pet’s hair follicles when they shed.
When dogs do not lose a lot of hair and dander that may cause a reaction for people with allergy sensitivities, they are thought of as hypoallergenic. Of course, there are no 100% hypoallergenic pets, only dogs and cats that shed less than others and therefore have the least impact on allergy sufferers.
They need to be groomed daily so their fur doesn’t matt. Brushing and combing are both essential to keep their long coat free of tangles. Many Lhasa apso pet parents opt to bring their pup to a professional groomer.
The lifetime care cost of a Lhasa apso is around $3600.
Here at Spot Pet Insurance, we want to help pet parents, both new and seasoned, reach their full pet parent potential.
We hope to provide you with the necessary information and coverage to help you and your pup live a full and happy life together. Lhasa apsos are fun and loyal little dogs, and they deserve and need a lot of care, especially when it comes to their grooming needs.
Adoption fee: $75-$1,200
[Expense: first year, following years]
Food: $240-$480, $240-$480
Water/food bowls: $10-$30, N/A
Collar and ID: $15-$25, $0-$25
Leashes: $5-$20, $0-$20
Dog bed and crate: $30-$50, N/A
Toys: $20-$60, $0-$60
Vaccines and routine care: $100-$1,300, $100-$400
Tick and flea prevention: $240, $240
Microchip: $30-$55, N/A
Brushes: $10, $0-$10
Grooming: $30-$640 (last figure is for professional grooming eight times a year), $0-$640
Total: $730-$2,910, $580-$1,875
Because Lhasa apsos are pretty stubborn and independent, they are pretty difficult to train. However, like most dogs, they need to learn basic commands. Other tricks might help keep them mentally stimulated.
The best way to train one of these pups is to use the reward system. It might also help to make it into a game so that they will be more inclined to cooperate.
If you avoid too much repetition, you might have a bit more success. You’ll need to be firm and consistent with the rules but flexible in how you teach them.
They should be kept on a leash when outside. They like investigating, but you don’t want them to wander too far.
Many foods are toxic to dogs, and there are also foods that they shouldn’t eat, even though they won’t hurt them. Although Lhasa apsos don’t have foods that could be toxic to their specific breeds, some Lhasas might be sensitive or allergic to some foods.
However, here are some foods your pup definitely should avoid.
Chocolate
Grapes and raisins
Avocados
Wild cherries
Rhubarb
Almonds
Yeast dough
Alcohol
Macadamia nuts
If you want to learn more about foods your pup can and cannot eat, check out some interesting articles here.
These little pups should remain inside for the most part, and their outdoor exercise needs are fairly minimal. They can get most of their exercise from playing games in the house with you or your children if you have any, or from racing around the house.
However, it is a good idea to take them outside for a little bit every day. They need the mental activity of sniffing around outside and tracking scents. If you have a yard, you could let your Lhasa apso out there for supervised playtime.
They are pretty good at entertaining themselves when needed, but they’ll always appreciate you taking time out of your day to play games with them.
Puppy: 0-3 years
Adult: 3-7 years
Senior:  7+
--------------------------------------------------
