Cat Breeds
Bold features, a thick, luxurious coat, and an incredibly friendly personality set the Maine Coon cat apart from the rest. These gorgeous cats love to play, but they enjoy taking time out for a well-earned nap when the mood strikes. Often, Maine Coon cats snuggle up next to their favorite people, which can be quite helpful on chilly evenings!
The Maine Coon’s purr is warmly expressive, and it’s often loud enough to be heard from several feet away. Their vocalizations are surprisingly quiet for such big cats, but their vocabularies can be extensive, with a range of chirps and meows.
One of the largest cat breeds in existence today, and one of the most popular breeds worldwide, the Maine Coon has a heart to match its stature. These cats love people and get along well with other pets. They are ideal for families as they tend to have an appreciation for children. When you meet a Maine Coon cat, you'll understand why they are called the gentle giants of the cat world.
Maine Coon cats have no special nutritional needs. However, it is worth noting that these large cats need a high-protein diet, and their daily caloric needs can be far higher than that of a smaller cat. We recommend feeding your Maine Coon cat a fresh diet or offering a high-quality commercial brand that lists real fish or meat as the number one ingredient.
As your Maine Coon ages, you might find it necessary to cut back a bit so your cat doesn't pack on extra pounds. Offering an age-appropriate diet is one of the best ways to help your cat enjoy good health throughout their golden years.
The Maine Coon has a thick, dense double coat with a silky soft undercoat. The coat needs thorough brushing at least two to three times a week to prevent matting. Some Maine Coons might need daily brushing. Your cat will appreciate the regular grooming sessions and view them as an additional opportunity to bond.
Teach your Maine Coon to accept nail trimming from a very young age. Keeping your Maine Coon cat's claws trimmed will spare your furniture, your clothing, and your skin.
Also consider teaching your Maine Coon to allow you to brush their teeth. Daily brushing at home is the best way to keep your cat's teeth healthy and help maintain your pet's overall wellness. Daily tooth brushing can also help cut back on the frequency of professional dental cleanings.
Maine Coon cats are playful, but they are equally fond of lounging. Too much inactivity can lead to obesity over time. Encourage your Maine Coon cat to play using feather wands and fishing pole toys, tossed balls and fuzzy mice, and laser pointers (never shine the light in their eyes and prevent frustration by giving them a real toy to "catch" at the end of the game). If possible, consider teaching your Maine Coon to walk on a leash and secure harness. The more activity your cat gets, the better their health is likely to be for the long-term.
Maine Coon cats are generally very healthy. Most pedigreed cats have certain genetically linked health conditions known in the breed. For the Maine Coon, the most common include feline hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, hip dysplasia, and spinal muscular atrophy. Reputable breeders take care to screen adult cats prior to breeding them, which minimizes the likelihood that they will pass these problems on to their kittens.
As you might have guessed, the Maine Coon cat is a native of the state of Maine. Endemic to the United States of America, this breed probably originated in the 1850s, when long-haired cats were brought to America and mated with local short-haired cats. The result was a hearty, healthy, large cat with incredible hunting prowess; a heavy, shaggy coat; and a long, flowing tail.
The breed was exhibited at cat shows throughout the late 19th century. Farmers who prized these cats for their outstanding ability to keep barns and outbuildings free from rodents held their own competition, called the Maine State Champion Coon Cat contest at the Skowhegan Fair.
Maine Coon cats fell out of fashion during the early 20th century, when more exotic long-haired cat breeds such as Persians came to the United States. The breed declined until the 1950s, with some people believing the Maine Coon might have even become extinct.
Maine Coon cat aficionados Alta Smith and Ruby Dyer founded the Central Maine Cat Club (CMCC) in 1953 to preserve the breed for future generations. In an effort to increase awareness about the breed, the CMCC posted cat shows and exhibitions that featured photographs of Maine Coon cats. The CMCC created the first written breed standards for Maine Coon cats, helping this unique breed regain popularity.
Ethelyn Whittemore of Augusta, Maine, whose family had continued casually breeding Maine Coons during the breed's time of unpopularity in the U.S., founded a Maine Coon cattery and kept written breeding records of her cats. Her cats were often winners at CMCC shows.
The Maine Coon Cat Club formed in 1973, with a goal of helping the breed achieve recognition by the Cat Fanciers' Association. In May 1975, the CFA granted Maine Coon cats provisional status; the Maine Coon was approved for championship status in 1976. Today, Maine Coon cats are recognized by all major cat registries.
Although female Maine Coons weigh an average of 12 to 15 pounds, it's not uncommon for male Maine Coon cats to weigh 18 to 22 pounds or more.
Maine Coons are the oldest natural cat breed in the United States. Not surprisingly, Maine Coon cats are also the official cat of the state of Maine.
The longest Maine Coon cat on record was named Stewie. He measured 48.5 inches from the tip of his nose to the tip of his tail, according to the Guinness Book of World Records.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Maine Coon, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Maine Coon or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Maine Coon, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Maine Coon cats cost between $400 to $2,000.
Maine Coon cats tend to be large in size. A fully grown Maine Coon cat might weigh between 9 to 20 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 10" to 16" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Maine Coon is 9 to 15 years.
Maine Coon are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
I would like to add to the sicknesses Maine Coons tend to have. I have a Maine Coon and my researches show, that they also have a tendency to have pancreatitis and chronical kidney insufficiency. The first one was diagnosed in my car after years while she had issues since she was a kitten. Then with 12 Years she was diagnosed with Chronical kidney insufficiency. A clinic then pointed out, that her pancreas is looking normal and she most likely has no pancreatitis. Never the less, online I found for both sicknesses a higher risk to occur in Maine Coons. My little love is 14 now and I hope she will make it some more years. However I decided not to get a Maine Coon again because they quite often have issues and these issues can vary widely.
I’m in need of one of these Maine cool kitties
We have had 3 Maine coons, the wife and I, over the years, and every one of them was a rescue cat. there is a coon cat rescue out there. we were ready to drive two states over, but found one just down the street from our house. so we went there first. i was holding her, she was purring and looking around the pound, so I hissed at her. she hissed back. had to have that cat. great mousers. i would recommend a large cat tree for them, as they are very athletic and like to be up high. they will dash up their tree whenever they think you will go past it. i wrapped the timber trunks of these trees with sturdy natural fiber rope, as their claws are not designed like normal cats and they will shred the carpet that comes on regular trees. they need to be brushed during the shedding season, or they will get hairballs. high ash cat foods have not done well in our home on them for some reason, so go lightly if you think that they have a UTI issue. they need a healthy diet, as they are very active. they will go for walks with you, and i have even seen people jog with their coons, on leashes, of course. they love to play in the snow. they are very shaggy little beings, and probably hate hot and muggy, but i had a neighbor in Guam (Hot and muggy central) who had two of them. they hated going outside, but they were good with air conditioning. they like to play, they need toys, they need a place to hide and rest, a box in a corner with a blanket in it will work, every one of ours likes this little round “stump” that is covered in carpet. it has a hole in the side where they can crawl inside it. i use it as an ottoman, even with the cat inside. they need lots of clean water, and one of these bubble filters seems to be a fave with them. they will even learn to like ice cubes in the water. some pets, like bunnies will not often drink moving water, so if you have a communal “watering hole” then the bubble filter setup probably is not a great idea. our bunny is underfoot, and gets along with the resident coon cat. if you go the rescue route, please remember, that they were given up because they were a big cat, and may not have been loved, but i have yet to see a coon cat that will not love you back as much as you love them, it might just take some time. they will sleep on the bed with you, wake you up at feeding (this may be at 2 AM, but they are like German shepherds, and will demand food when they are hungry.  they will follow you around the house, and even herd you toward the food dish area from time to time. they are very vocal, and they like to pretend to play rough, so be careful with that, they have half inch claws. i leave them intact, as they can scamper up the cat trees a lot better with four wheel drive. I am not really a cat person, but Coon cats are not really just cats. our first one even got along with my Akita. she would even stalk that dog when she was angry with it. Coons are not at all for everyone, make friends with one first, they are an awful lot of cat, come with personalities the size of horses, and have the heart of lions.
Thanks for article and most everyone’s comments.  My wife and I recently bought a home in the country, and we had a visitor this past weekend.  My wife loves cats, but I don’t care for them at all as I’m allergic to them… always sniffling within minutes of touching one.  This visitor we had was the cutest Maine coon I’ve seen.  He loved being center of attention with my wife feeding and watering outside our garage, but he continued walking past her to come play with me.  I had on gloves initially because I was moving stuff, but then grew to love this cat who acted like a dog, and I shed the gloves.  We bonded for several hours afterwards, and I noticed I wasn’t having any allergic reactions at all!  The past few days have been spent searching for neighbors asking if they own him… we are in luck:)
We will be taking him to vet for checkup and microchip soon… proud lover of dog has just become Maine coon whisperer 😂
Ooh, exciting times! Here’s to you and your new friend.
Is it possible to bring a Maine Coon Cat into a home with 3 dogs…..all of whom have sweet temperaments? I have a 9 y/o Boxer bitch, a 7y/o GSD bitch, and a VERY gentle
3 y/o male Great Dane.
Hi Rhea, I apologize for the late reply! A cat of any breed can join a home with multiple cat-friendly dogs. You’ll just want to take care to introduce all of them properly!
Love our  Maine Coon cat. Is a great mouser for mice, moles, birds and small rabbits. Very friendly and loving. Can open doors, especially my closet, where it likes to sleep and hide at times. One of the best cats I’ve owned. Like to sleep with us. Especially on top of my wife at times.
I recently lost my kitty best friend, Angel, a 9 year old Maine Coon Rescue Kitty.  She was the kindest, most compassionate, emotionally intelligent being I’ve ever met.
Losing Angel breaks my heart.
I have a beautiful female coon,she’s everything you have said here and more ,extra toes and all..
Hello
I am searching for a main coon mature cat that is affordable.  I recently lost my 11 yr old cat and it is very lonely. Please let me know if you know of one.
Hey Sherril, this is a question for someone in your local area. I would recommend searching “Maine Coon breeder” + “(your town name)” and seeing what comes up. Local cat Facebook groups or friends may also be able to help.
Thank you for this informative website which confirms my suspicions that our neighbor’s previous cat and the present one are Main Coon cats. These striking black and white felines were probably siblings from the same breeder, being almost identical. In fact, another neighbor thought they had been always seeing the same cat for the last couple decades. The first one did live many years, considering that the owner, who is not a talkative or sociable person, would leave it outside year-round, occasionally for weeks at a time while she travelled elsewhere. I have read on another site that Main Coon cats were originally bred as outdoor winter cats, and I had marveled at its endurance. Anyway, we found out that yet another neighbor had sometimes fed it, and that “it” was actually a “she” who gave birth to a litter in the dead of winter outside. We are talking about a suburban Montreal, Canada environment here.
By this time I had gone from being a cat person to an exotic bird person after our last cat Tessy, a rescued stray, had died at age 20. I taught Tessy to leash-walk, or rather the skill was passed down through successive cats by each other, after I first taught my Siamese, a dog-like breed who will fetch a ball, to do so. (This skill came in especially handy when Tessy went blind in her later years,  in fact she became a better leash-walker than before.) Apparently playful Main Coons are similar to Siamese in this respect. But our neighbor did not train hers, she just opened the door. The Coon cat was friendly at first and even made attempts to enter our home, her bold macho attitude having me assume she was male, albeit with a tiny tinkerbell voice. But being a bird person, I did not encourage her. She picked up on my vibe and would stay a few feet away, but was very affectionate with other neighbors.
Nor did I welcome her with open arms into our back yard as we have birdbaths. However the second Coon cat, like the first, seems to assume ours is the home away from home and prances over with a proud, entitled gait, to the extent that some neighbors have assumed they are ours. We often turn a blind eye when they visit our sheltered balcony, especially when the snow is deep and the temperature frigid. In this area, many are up in arms about cats roaming freely, there are many environmentalists and birdwatchers, and there is often talk of coming legislation.
I rated the Main Coon cat breed as four stars, but that is with the provision that they should not roam freely in urban areas. My heart was broken when the first one killed the two baby squirrels that we loved observing. But that is in a cat’s nature, and apparently Main Coon nature especially, as they were reportedly first owned by farmers as a “working breed” to keep vermin out of barns. And no doubt both these black and white visitors have helped keep the house mice population in check, though the odd one still gets inside, which we and our indoor birds do greatly appreciate.
I am a dog person; I’ve bred raised and shown Spaniels for most of my adult life, over 50 years now.  That said, I’ve also always had a cat, mostly Abyssinians, and I always enjoyed them.  The dogs and their cat always got along famously!   But I recently moved into a smaller home and decided that I would try a less active cat.  I have friends who had Maine Coon cats and always raved about them. So I got on the waiting list of a breeder of Maine Coons who was adamant about health testing and temperament.  I wanted a male, but had no other requirements.  My sister and I drove about 300 miles to pick up my 14 week old kitten, who turned out to be a silver tabby!  And such a handsome boy!!  His name is Clark, after Sunshine Superman, and he is everything I can imagine wanting in a cat.  He is now four years old.  He has no desire to go out doors, which I’m thrilled with.  He has bonded with any dog that lives here or comes to visit.  But his favorite by far is my Champion, three year old, blue roan English Cocker, Robbie.   They wrestle and chase,  with Clark often “nailing” Robbie to the floor.  There is never any growling or angry noises from either one of them.  The blue roan and silver tabby colors are so similar that it’s often difficult to tell which is who.  they are making my senior years a joy!!
we have a coon cat and mix with something else he 2 in the last to week he up all night cryiny in the week what should i do with that
Cats might start crying a lot at night for a variety of reasons. You can learn about it here.
got our first baby today we love him so much
We got one a year ago at the shelter, well two sisters.  One is a torby short hair and the other is a torby/maincoon, both beautiful and growing into two great kitties.  They talk, open up drawers and play with the sink, also they love anything to play with so i am always watching for what they have goten into now and moving things up higher.  But the maincoon is funny she follows me everywhere and I agree very smart.  I brush once a week to keep her hair nice.  I have never had sisters before, they clean each other, it is so cute and chase and play, one thing is we got a play structure and scratching post 1st thing.  I look forward to them growing and having them in our lives and always check shelter’s they can have some great babies.
I have a beautiful female retired breeding queen who came to me when she was 6 and a half years old. It has taken her almost three years to break the shackles of her controlled past. Firstly she cried all the way home the day I collected her then hid in her bedroom for days and then hid again every evening when I went in to spend with her until morning. She must’ve missed all her Maine Coon siblings she lived with terribly. Eventually she slept next to me but any movement from me sent her hiding under the bed. I let her go outside after 3 months and couldn’t get her in. Freedom at last! I’d watch her so happy just sitting out there mid winter in the rain or snow. My heart.
It took hours each early evening to coax her in whatever the weather, she would prefer any time outside than with me inside. But now after my patience and understanding she will spend time inside with me and chats away constantly. She loves to play simple games with ribbons or long fishing rod toys. Her purs are quiet but still she purs when I stroke or groom her. She looks at me with trust and love. Finally.
She has some weird traits, like loving anything plastic. She licks bubblewrap and bags or try’s to scoop them up to make a nest to sleep on. Every day this happens.
She is my lovely independent girl. We understand each other and I’m so happy to have her in my life entertaining me.
I love her very much
As it happens I suppose, the Maine Coon Cat seems now to be progressively bred to have more exaggerated features. I loved the older form of cat with a rounder head, A big muzzle that was not so long as it seems now, and ears that were not so large and with rounder tips. The Maine Coon cat, I’m afraid, might be going the way of the Oriental, the Siamese, and likely some other breeds. Do we still have a choice? Are there catteries that still favor the old appearance? I hope the older style cat still rates well in shows as week or I am afraid we will lose them.
Not sure if you’ve seen this interesting history of Maine Coon breed standards—I haven’t seen any indication that the breed standard is becoming more and more exaggerated, but perhaps I’m missing something. If you have any examples of this trend, it would be fascinating to be able to share it somewhere. Thank you!
I concur with Ms Bishop the more recent photos of Maine Coons show very exaggerated features – a big square, pushed-out muzzle and HUGE ears!  They hardly look like cats.  It’s very unattractive.  The “old style” cat looked much more like a cat – rounder head, not a prominent square muzzle, ears in proportion.
And by “old style”, my nephew had one born about 2010.
The other breeds she mentions also have been bred to an extreme of exaggerated features that, to me, they’ve lost their original elegant appeal and are bred purely for cat fanciers.
I’ve had many cats through out my lifetime but most have been rescued. When my daughter needed someone to take her big cat, I said yes.   I wasn’t sure the type but learned he was a younger Maine Coon.  I’ve had Dexter for 8 years now and he is huge weighing in at about 24 pounds.  He is funny, intelligent, gentle, extremely loving, meows like a little girl and flops over so I can rub his stomach. In many ways he acts like a dog. For such a long haired cat he sheds very little.  In the spring I have him clipped in a Lion cut so he stays cool in the summer.  By the time winter arrives he is fully fluffy again. I will always seek out a Maine Coon but hope that day is far off. I love Dexter!
I have a very similar cat and story to yours. I’ve always been a cat person. After a long term big orange tabby passed of old age, I went to see 2 rescues from a friend who ran an organization rescuing abandoned cats. One of them immediately bonded with me, and it was decided I should take him home if I was able…..so I did. His name is Rufus and is pushing 10 now. I cannot imagine more of a BFF than Rufus. He’s my best pal and I love having him around. He seemed large for being under a year old when he came home. I didn’t really think about it. Then, like you found out he was a Maine Coon. He grew…..and grew……and grew…..slowly for almost 5 years. He has similar temperament as you mentioned. Exceptionally intelligent and perceptive. Quirk sense of humour.  Has odd squeaky vocalizations (when he bothers to but tends to be quiet by nature), and for those he trusts will always roll over for a belly rub. I’ve never done a Lion cut for summer, but I have always thinned his coat wayyyyy down with undercoat grooming tools. He enjoys it also. He loves to play ball. I throw the ball fairly high over top of him and he’ll jump up really high to give it a proper volley ball spike across the room. Or catch it with both paws and hold on as long as he can until he has to let go to land. Neither of us has ever grown bored of this game all these years. I don’t think he is full Maine Coon, and I doubt he came from any sort of Cattery, which I’m glad for. Though I have no way of knowing.
This depresses me.  Think I’ll look back to the smaller rescue and found cats we have enjoyed so much over the years.
This gives me hope and perhaps a map.
We have a 2-year old dog who was raised similarly. We’ve persevered with her nasty side, wondering what to do.
Maybe continued love and kindness along with time will mellow her out. Thanks for the inspiration.
It works, yes. But it can take a long time. Good luck!
As well as being kind to our poor abused kitten, we also had to be firm, especially as she grew into a big powerful cat. She learned she would be reprimanded if she bit us. It was never the sort of full-on predator’s chomp that can take a finger off, but she would give us a painful nip and those big front fangs are needle sharp. The claws? Also extremely sharp and with great muscles behind them. She drew blood on many occasions. Eventually she learned this was not acceptable. Sometimes she would bite one of us then look absolutely embarrassed; “Oh dear, I’ve forgotten my manners!”. Some times she would move as if to bite and we could see her restrain herself. When the battle between instinct and training got too confusing for her she would go off and hide for hours, while she thought about it all. We let her. If we ever had to do anything she disliked, like cutting lumps out of her coat, we would console her with treat foods immediately afterwards. Although she was jumpy and violent, she was never a cat who held grudges, as some do.
These days she is pretty much okay. She will never be 100%. She is still jumpy and always will be. But she is safe to be around, as long as nobody takes liberties with her. She loves to lie on me full-length and purr thunderously. The Maine Coon purr is something to be experienced. We are extremely fond of her, as you might have guessed.
A dog is a different bundle of problems. They are pack animals so you have to be your dog’s pack leader. You really do not want a dog thinking it is your pack leader. How to convince an abused dog you are its pack leader when it is liable to interpret even very gentle discipline as an attack is very difficult indeed. I would suggest getting advice from a canine behaviour specialist.
Maine Coons are often described as gentle giants. But what if you get one who isn’t?
About ten years ago we bought a Maine Coon kitten. She had been raised in dreadfully overcrowded premises with two queens’ litters all thrown in together. She was the smallest of all the kittens. Many were quite large males. So from the moment she opened her eyes, she had to fight and go on fighting. She got beaten up constantly. She got the message very thoroughly that life consisted of fighting. When she came to us she had no whiskers. They had all been chewed off in kitten-fights. The breeder assured us this was quite normal but I don’t think so. A cat relies on its whiskers for all sorts of sensory information. It must have been like being partly blind.
As she grew up she became a real hooligan. She would attack any of our other cats. As far as she was concerned any other cat was automatically the enemy. It was impossible to stroke her because she would interpret any movement of a hand coming towards her as a possible attack and either lash out or bite. She had no idea how to look after herself because in the dreadful chaos she had been raised in, her mother-cat had not been able to teach her much. Keeping her coat brushed and free of lumps was very difficult. Fortunately our big Siberian is a very maternal cat and when our half-grown Maine kitten attacked her, she put out a large golden paw, held her down and washed her very thoroughly all over, after which they curled up together. So our Maine did get some proper cat-mothering. Possibly it was the saving of her.
As she grew she became extremely large and strong and remained nervous, jumpy and bad-tempered. There were years when we wondered if we could cope with her. It wasn’t her fault, poor cat. It was the fault of her first dreadful twelve weeks of life. Underneath all the aggression we could see glimpses of a very nice, intelligent, affectionate cat. But you just try living with a very strong fifteen pound hellcat who is all muscle and liable to lash out at the slightest provocation. Try to pick her up, stroke her or brush her and she would commence to wowrrl and “swear”. The claws and the teeth would come out very quickly. For some years it was fairly dangerous to be near her.
We persevered, because after all, who else would take her on? We left her to her own devices when she wanted peace. Fortunately our place is large, rambling and dilapidated with plenty of hidey-holes for a cat who just wants to get away from it all and have lots of peace and quiet. We fed her treats. We told her she is beautiful and that we love her. We spoke to her very gently. (She is acutely sensitive to a sharp or a raised voice). We let her get on with it in her own time and at her own pace.
Today she is a ridiculously affectionate cat with a magnificent fluffy coat who purrs constantly and loves to lie on me full-length and receive fuss, strokes and compliments. She has indeed become a real gentle giant, very much beloved and spectacularly beautiful.
But it has taken the best part of ten years to get there. If a cat’s trust is badly damaged, it can take a long time to heal. The bigger breeds, Maines and Siberians certainly, maybe Norwegians too, are not quite like ordinary cats. They are more intelligent. They give more to their humans. But they demand more understanding in return.
So if you want a Maine Coon kitten, it is very important to inspect the breeder’s premises carefully. Find out as much as you can about the conditions their kittens are raised in. Don’t listen to sales talk. Check. Remember that to some breeders, their kittens are not pets. They are revenue-earning livestock.
None of that is a criticism of the breed. I think Maine Coons are wonderful cats. She is certainly a marvelous companion these days. Her earlier, difficult, years, were definitely not her fault. But do remember that a big, physically powerful, highly intelligent cat can be quite difficult to live with if circumstances or her history have made her unhappy. Taking one on is a serious responsibility.
Thanks – this is a great and a very insightful text. I agree although there’s a lot of “nature” in this breed (they are inclined to be kind and loving through decades of careful selection), but when a “nurture” factor kicks in, it can turn the most loving and affectionate kitten into a proverbial cat from the hell. So, yes. always research your breeder, visit them if possible, and take time to meet kittens and select your new friend in person, not just by pictures.
One minor note – kittens do indeed chew off each others’ whiskers – not uncommon at all. This doesn’t necessarily involve fights, sometimes other kittens or even mother cats do it while grooming.
We had a Maine Coon live for 18 years. At one time he topped 27 lbs, and despite being declawed, bullied all other cats in the neighborhood by using his massive weight to pin down any feline that dared challenged him. He acted like a dog and would come, sit, and laid down at commands…very unusual. He even knew how to turn doorknobs to open doors, and liked to take baths.  He  loved being petted, unless he was in a bad mood…then look out! vicious. We miss him dearly.
Glad to hear you had such a wonderful Coonie. But please, if you get another one (or any other cat come to that), don’t be so cruel as to have it declawed.
Why on earth do people declaw cats? It’s like stopping a dog from barking. I feel it’s just cruel. I would NEVER trust a person who declawed their cat.
F BENJAMIN
Perhaps someone else has already pointed this out, but a reputable breeder or rescue is invaluable to help you find the right pet for you and will take back a pet at least with a two week window of time.
As with anything in life ” buyer beware”.
Excellent insight of what can happen when a kitten is left to fend alone in a stressful situation. I have three Maine Coons from three different breeders. Leo comes from a breeder who spent lots of time with the kittens and the males were kept at another location than the queens and kittens. He was friendly and loving from day one. Forrest came from a breeder that had the kittens in the house and they were part of the family. Same as Leo, he was a cuddler from Day 1. Stella came from a breeder that had a cattery separate from the house and the kittens were not exposed to much human contact and playing. Human interaction came at feeding time and when litter boxes were changed. It took about 2 years to come around to really seeking out and enjoying human interaction. She now sleeps with me and is close to wherever I am.  I call her the beautiful Stella and she purrs and snuggles. The breeder environment those first 12 weeks makes a huge difference to the personality of the kitten you bring into your home. Do some research before buying a kitten. Maine Coons are the most amazing animals I’ve ever had. I say I have dogs, cats and Maine Coons. They are a totally different experience.
Totally agree the way you speak to a cat is vital in communicating with any cat and helps promote a relationship to develop into a bond.  All cats are extraordinary therapy/emotional support animals.  I think you probably are aware, it’s “Mutual Rescue” providing a home for a cat.  LOVE. PEACE. God Bless.
I have a male, half Maine Coon cat and he was a barn save. He was excessively violent until we neutered him. Such a massive difference afterward. He loves to cuddle up in my fuzzy blanket with me and will kneed the blanket purring heavily for hours. Their fur is an absolute nightmare to maintain though, not gonna lie.
i have decided that I NEED a Maine Coon Cat.   I have always been a dog person. Most recently I had two maltese dogs.  One was very comforting and stayed with me all the time while the second is more aloof, and doesn’t like to cuddle.   My first maltese died of complications from diabetes and I am long for a cuddle buddy.  I have been spending time with a friend who has a Newfoundland, a St. Bernard, a Pomerianian , a Maine Coon cat, a domestic short hair cat and a Persian.  Her mother had a tonkinese, which I also loved, but until last week it has been a hands down win with the Maine coon as the most desireable pet.  Hope to find one soon.
--------------------------------------------------
The Maine Coon is a large domesticated cat breed. One of the oldest natural breeds in North America, the breed originated in the U.S. state of Maine,[3][4] where it is the official state cat.
The Maine Coon is a large and social cat, commonly referred to as "the gentle giant." The Maine Coon is predominantly known for its size and dense coat of fur which helps it survive in the harsh climate of Maine. The Maine Coon is often cited as having "dog-like" characteristics.[5][6]
The Maine Coon is one of the largest domesticated cats. It has a distinctive physical appearance and valuable hunting skills. The breed was popular in cat shows in the late 19th century, but its existence became threatened when long-haired breeds from overseas were introduced in the early 20th century. The Maine Coon has since made a comeback, and in 2023 the Maine Coon overtook the Exotic, becoming the second most popular pedigree cat breed in the world.[7]
Maine Coon cats are known to have originated in Maine. However, their lineage is surrounded by mystery, folk tales, and myths. One myth claims the Maine Coon cat is a hybrid with another animal species, such as the raccoon or bobcat. The second myth states the cats are descendants of Viking ship's cats, known today as the Norwegian Forest cats. A third story involves Marie Antoinette, the Queen of France who was executed in 1793. The story goes that before her death, Antoinette attempted to escape from France with the help of Captain Samuel Clough. She loaded Clough's ship with her most prized possessions, including six of her favorite Turkish Angora or possibly Siberian cats. Although she did not make it to the United States, all of her pets managed to reach the shore of Wiscasset, Maine, safely, where they bred with other short-haired breeds and developed into the modern breed of the Maine Coon.[8][9]
These myths and theories have long speculated that the long-haired Maine Coon cat has to be related to other long-haired breeds, due to their similarities in phenotype. For the Maine Coon in particular, that it is descended from the Norwegian or Siberian Forest cat, brought to New England by settlers or Vikings.[8][9][10] Phylogenetic studies showed that the Maine Coon belongs to the Western European monophyletic cat branch, but forms the closest relationship with the random-bred cat population in the Northeastern US (New York region).[11] This Western European branch contains the Norwegian and Siberian Forest cat, but they fall under a different sub-branch.[9]
Maine Coons are descendants of cats brought to New England by Puritan settlers in the 1600-1700s, and out of the European cats they are genetically closest to cats found in the United Kingdom.[9] It is not relatedness that makes them look similar to the Norwegian and Siberian Forest cats, but convergent evolution. These breeds all formed in harsh climates, in which natural selection pressures for similar qualities.[9] Thick, long coats, toe and ear tufts, big bodies, and snowshoe-like big feet, are useful traits in all the harsh climates where these breeds originate.
The first mention of Maine Coon cats in a literary work was in 1861, in Frances Simpson's The Book of the Cat (1903). F.R. Pierce, who owned several Maine Coons, wrote a chapter about the breed.[12] During the late 1860s, farmers located in Maine told stories about their cats and held the "Maine State Champion Coon Cat" contest at the local Skowhegan Fair.[13]
In 1895, a dozen Maine Coons were entered into a show in Boston. On 8 May 1895, the first North American cat show was hosted at Madison Square Garden in New York City. A female Maine Coon brown tabby, named Cosey, was entered into the show. Owned by Mrs. Fred Brown, Cosey won the silver collar and medal and was named Best in Show.[13] The silver collar was purchased by the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) Foundation with the help of a donation from the National Capital Cat Show. The collar is housed at the CFA Central Office in the Jean Baker Rose Memorial Library.[13]
In the early 20th century, the Maine Coon's popularity began to decline with the introduction of other long-haired breeds, such as the Persian, which originated in the Middle East. The last recorded win by a Maine Coon in a national cat show for over 40 years was in 1911 at a show in Portland, Oregon. The breed was rarely seen after that. The decline was so severe that the breed was declared extinct in the 1950s, although this declaration was considered to be exaggerated and reported prematurely at the time.[by whom?] The Central Maine Cat Club (CMCC) was created in the early 1950s by Ethylin Whittemore, Alta Smith, and Ruby Dyer in an attempt to increase the popularity of the Maine Coon. For 11 years, the CMCC held cat shows and hosted exhibitions of photographs of the breed and is noted for creating the first written breed standards for the Maine Coon.[13]
The Maine Coon was denied provisional breed status—one of the three steps required for a breed not yet recognized by the CFA to be able to compete in championship competitions[14]—by the CFA three times, which led to the formation of the Maine Coon Cat Club in 1973. The breed was accepted by the CFA under provisional status in May 1975, and was approved for championship status in May 1976. The next couple of decades saw a rise in the popularity of the Maine Coon, with championship victories and an increase in national rankings. In 1985, the state of Maine announced that the breed would be named the official state cat.[15]
The Maine Coon is a long- or medium-haired cat. The coat is soft and silky, although texture may vary with coat color. The length is shorter on the head and shoulders and longer on the stomach and flanks, with some cats having a leonine ruff around their neck. Minimal grooming is required for the breed compared to other long-haired breeds, as their double coat is mostly self-maintaining owing to a light-density undercoat. The coat is subject to seasonal variation,[16] with the fur being thicker in the winter and thinner during the summer.
Maine Coons have several physical adaptations for survival in harsh winter climates. Their dense water-resistant fur is longer and shaggier on their underside and rear for extra protection when they are walking or sitting on top of wet surfaces of snow or ice.[17] Their long and bushy raccoon-like tail is resistant to sinking in snow, and can be curled around their face and shoulders for warmth and protection from wind and blowing snow. It can even be curled around their backside like an insulated seat cushion when sitting down on a frozen surface.[18]
Large paws facilitate walking on snow and are often compared to snowshoes.[17] Long tufts of fur growing between their toes help keep the toes warm and further aid walking on snow by giving the paws additional structure without significant extra weight.[18] Heavily furred ears with extra long tufts of fur growing from inside can keep warm more easily.[17]
Maine Coons can have any colors that other cats have. Colors indicating crossbreeding, such as chocolate, lavender, the Siamese pointed patterns or the "ticked" patterns, are not accepted by some breed standards. This is not universal; the ticked pattern, for example, is accepted by TICA and CFA.[13] The most common pattern seen in the breed is brown tabby.[19] All eye colors are accepted under breed standards, with the exception of blue or odd-eyes, i.e. heterochromia iridium (two eyes of different colors), in cats possessing coat colors other than white.[16]
The Maine Coon was considered the largest breed of domestic cat until the introduction of the Savannah cat in the mid-1980s, yet it is still the largest non-hybrid breed.[citation needed] On average, males weigh from 18 to 22 lb (8.2 to 10.0 kg), with females weighing from 12 to 15 lb (5.4 to 6.8 kg).[20] The height of adults can vary between 10 and 16 in (25 and 41 cm) and they can reach a length of up to 38 in (97 cm), including the tail, which can reach a length of 14 in (36 cm)[21] and is long, tapering, and heavily furred, almost resembling a raccoon's tail. The body is solid and muscular, which is necessary for supporting their weight, and the chest is broad. Maine Coons possess a rectangular body shape and are slow to physically mature; their full size is normally not reached until they are three to five years old, while other cats take about one year.[22][better source needed]
In 2010, the Guinness World Records accepted a male purebred Maine Coon named "Stewie" as the "Longest Cat", measuring 48.5 in (123 cm) from the tip of his nose to the tip of his tail. Stewie died on February 4, 2013, from cancer at his home in Reno, Nevada, at age 8.[23][24] As of 2015 the living record-holder for "Longest Cat" is "Ludo", measuring 46.59 in (118.3 cm). He lives in Wakefield, England, in the United Kingdom.[25] 
Large Maine Coons can overlap in length with Eurasian lynxes, although with a much lighter build and lower height.[26]
Many of the original Maine Coon cats that inhabited the New England area possessed a trait known as polydactylism (having one or more extra toes on a paw).[17]  With the 1970s revival of the interest in the breed, Maine Coon cats were noted to show an increased incidence of polydactylism compared to other breeds. Subsequently, breeders of show-standard cats were advised to regard this variation as undesirable and to offer affected kittens as household pets. The trait later became separately certified by some organizations, like The International Cat Association (TICA).[27] Meanwhile, in increasing numbers of cat fancy competitions, the trait is no longer marked down.
Polydactylism is rarely, if ever, seen in Maine Coons in the show ring, since it is not allowed by competition standards.[28] The gene for polydactylism is a simple autosomal dominant gene.[29] The polydactylism results from genetic problems which are not encouraged for breeding.[30] Polydactyly in Maine Coon cats is characterised by broad phenotypic diversity.[31] Polydactyly not only affects digit number and conformation, but also carpus and tarsus conformation.[32] The trait was almost eradicated from the breed due to the fact that it was an automatic disqualifier in show rings.[33] Some private organizations and breeders were created in order to preserve polydactylism in Maine Coon cats.
Pet insurance data obtained from a study during years 2003–2006 in Sweden puts the median lifespan of the Maine Coon at > 12.5 years. 74% lived to 10 years or more and 54% lived to 12.5 years or more.[34] A UK study found a life expectancy of 9.71 years compared to 11.74 years overall.[35]
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) has been observed in Maine Coon populations.[36] A mutation in the MYBPC3 gene found in Maine Coons has been associated with HCM.[37]
Of all the Maine Coons tested for the MyBPC mutation at the Veterinary Cardiac Genetics Lab at the College of Veterinary Medicine at Washington State University, approximately one-third tested positive.[38] Not all cats that test positive will have clinical signs of the disease, and some Maine Coon cats with clinical evidence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy test negative for this mutation, strongly suggesting that a second mutation exists in the breed. The HCM prevalence was found to be 10.1% (95% CI 5.8 -14.3%) in this study.[39] Early growth and nutrition, larger body size, and obesity may be environmental modifiers of genetic predisposition to HCM.[40]
Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is an inherited condition in cats that causes multiple cysts (pockets of fluid) to form in the kidneys. These cysts are present from birth. Initially, they are very small, but they grow larger over time and may eventually disrupt kidney function, resulting in kidney failure. While renal cysts are observed with a low incidence in Maine Coons, PKD appears to be a misnomer in this particular breed. In a 2013 study, spanning 8 years, renal cysts were documented by ultrasound in 7 of 187 healthy Maine Coons enrolled in a pre-breeding screening programme. The cysts were mostly single and unilateral (6/7, 85.7%), small (mean 3.6 mm in diameter), and located at the corticomedullary junction (4/6, 66.7%). Thus, different in size, number, and location from those observed in Persian-related breeds. In the same study, all six Maine Coon cats with renal cysts tested negative for the PKD1 mutation, proving the disease in these cats to be unrelated to the PKD observed in Persians and related breeds. Gene sequencing of these cats failed to demonstrate any common genetic sequences. Gendron et al. found that 'Maine Coon PKD' represents a form of juvenile nephropathy other than PKD.[41]
Hip dysplasia is an abnormality of the hip joint which can cause crippling lameness and arthritis. The cats most commonly affected with hip dysplasia tend to be males of the larger, big-boned breeds such as Persians and Maine Coons. The relatively smaller size and weight of cats frequently results in symptoms that are less pronounced.[42] X-rays submitted to the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) between 1974 and 2011 indicates that 24.3% of Maine Coons in the database were dysplastic. Dysplasia was more severe in bilateral than unilateral cases and with increasing age.[43]
The Maine Coon is one of the more commonly affected breeds for spinal muscular atrophy. An autosomal recessive mutation in both the LIX1 and LNPEP gene are responsible for the condition in the breed.[44]
Maine Coons also seem to be predisposed to develop entropion, mainly on the lateral aspect of the eyelids, which can lead to corneal irritation and ulceration, and may require surgery.[45]
--------------------------------------------------
The Maine Coon, one of the largest and oldest natural cat breeds, hails from Maine, where the breed was known as a popular mouser, farm cat, and ship’s cat as far back as the early 19th century. Known for their impressive size, tufted ears, bushy tails, and luxurious, semi-longhair coats, Maine Coon cats are easily recognizable. Also renowned for their friendly and sociable personalities, these cats are often called “gentle giants.” They are characterized by their intelligence, friendliness, playful temperament, and adaptability, making them well-suited for family life.
Despite their large size, Maine Coons are graceful and agile. Additionally, Maine Coons are often good with children and other pets, making them excellent companions for families. Their thick, water-resistant fur helps them adapt to various climates, and their tufted ears protect them from harsh weather conditions. With their affectionate nature and striking looks, Maine Coons have become a popular and beloved breed in many households around the world.
When considering a Maine Coon, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Maine Coon kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Maine Coon breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
As the name implies, the Maine Coon originated in Maine, where the breed was known as a farm cat, ship cat, and mouse, with historical records dating back to the 1850s. They’re a natural breed, and little is known about their origins. Some say the Vikings brought them to North America centuries before Columbus sailed the ocean blue.
Others say they’re the descendants of longhaired cats belonging to Marie Antoinette, sent to America in advance by the doomed queen, who had hoped to escape there. Sea captains may have brought back longhaired cats that mated with local shorthaired cats.
One thing is for sure— the Maine Coon is not the result of a mating between a cat and a raccoon, even if their brown tabby coat and furry ringed tail suggest that biological impossibility. The resemblance is, however, how the cats got the “Coon” part of their name. Maine Coons who didn’t have the brown tabby coat were called Maine Shags. The first published reference to a Maine Coon comes from 1861 and was about a black-and-white cat named Captain Jenks of the Horse Marines.
A female Maine Coon was named Best Cat in 1895 at a cat show held in Madison Square Garden. In Boston and New York, the home-grown felines were popular exhibits at cat shows, and when the Cat Fanciers Association was formed in 1908, the fifth cat registered was a Maine Coon named Molly Bond.
But the invasion of glamorous Persian and exotic Siamese cats from England around the turn of the century spelled the end of the Maine Coon’s popularity for about five decades. Things took a turn for the better in the 1960s, and the Maine Coon Breeders and Fanciers Association was formed in 1968. Today, these big, beautiful cats are among the world’s most popular breeds. But what counts, of course, is that they are the official state cat of Maine.
This is a large cat. Most Maine Coons weigh 9 to 18 pounds–males are larger–and some tip the scales at 20 or more pounds. They don’t reach their full size until they are three to five years old.
The good-natured and affable Maine Coon adapts well to many lifestyles and personalities. They like being with people and have the habit of following them around, but they aren’t needy. They’re happy to receive attention when you direct it their way, but if you’re busy, they’re satisfied to just supervise your doings. Close a door on them and they will wait patiently for you to realize the error of your ways and let them in. They’re not typically a lap cat, but they do like to be near you. They also retain their skill as a mouser. No rodents will be safe in a home where a Maine Coon resides. Even if you don’t have any mice for them to chase, they’ll keep their skills sharp by chasing toys and grabbing them with their big paws. A Maine Coon also enjoys playing fetch and will retrieve small balls, toys, or wadded-up pieces of paper. They can climb as well as any cat but usually prefer to stay on ground level. That’s where their work is, after all. They’re also very smart and will happily learn tricks or play with puzzle toys that challenge their brain. Maine Coons usually enjoy a kittenish love of play well into adulthood. Males, especially, are prone to silly behavior. Females are more dignified, but they aren’t above a good game of chase. Not especially vocal, they make any requests in a soft chirp or trill.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Problems that may affect the Maine Coon include the following:
Despite the length of the Maine Coon’s coat, it has a silky texture that doesn’t mat easily—if you groom it regularly. It is easily cared for with twice weekly combing to remove dead hair and distribute skin oils. Useful grooming tools include a stainless steel comb for removing tangles and what’s called a “grooming rake” to pull out dead undercoat, which is what causes tangles when it’s not removed. Use it gently, especially in the stomach area and on the tail.
Maine Coons are patient, but they don’t like having their hair pulled any more than you do. Check the tail for bits of poop stuck to the fur and clean it off with a baby wipe. Bathe a Maine Coon as needed, which can range from every few weeks to every few months.
If their coat feels greasy or their fur looks stringy, they need a bath. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks.
Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection. Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water.
Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear. Keep the Maine Coon’s litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene, and a clean litter box will help to keep the coat clean as well.
It’s a good idea to keep a Maine Coon as an indoor-only cat to protect them from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Maine Coons who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
A Maine Coon is a big, rugged cat with a smooth, shaggy coat who looks as if they could put in a full day mousing on a farm in all weather conditions. Indeed, they were built for just such work in the harsh Maine climate, and their breed standard reflects their heritage, calling for a medium-size to large cat with a well-proportioned body that is muscular and broad-chested. A
Maine Coon has substantial, medium-length legs and large, round paws, well tufted with fur, to serve as “snowshoes” during winter. A heavy coat is shorter on the shoulders, longer on the stomach and britches (long fur on the upper hind legs), with a ruff in front and a long, furry tail waving a greeting.
A medium-width head is slightly longer than it is wide and has a squarish muzzle. Large, well-tufted ears are wide at the base, tapering to a point, and large, expressive eyes are green, gold, greenish-gold or copper. White or bi-colored Maine Coons may have blue or odd eyes. The brown tabby pattern is so common in this breed that many people don’t know Maine Coons can come in any other colors or patterns.
They might be surprised to learn that Maine Coons are found in solid colors that include black, red or white, all tabby colors and patterns, bi-color such as blue and white or red and white, and patterns such as tortoiseshell and calico.
The friendly, laid back Maine Coon is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. They love the attention they receive from children who treat them politely and with respect, and they don’t mind playing dress-up or going for a ride in a baby buggy.
They’re happy to live with cat-friendly dogs, too, thanks to their amiable disposition. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
There are many rescue organizations for cats, and some are even breed-specific. Try searching for a nonprofit Maine Coon rescue near you if you’re interested, or try the links below.
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Maine Coon hay mèo lông dài Mỹ là một nòi mèo nhà có đặc điểm kiểu hình đặc trưng và có kỹ năng săn mồi đáng nể. Nó là một trong những nòi mèo tự nhiên cổ xưa nhất ở Bắc Mỹ[1], là nòi bản địa của bang Maine[2] và được bang này chọn là động vật đại diện cho mình[3][4].
Nguồn gốc thật sự cũng như thời gian chính xác mà mèo Maine Coon được đưa tới Hoa Kỳ chưa được biết tới rõ ràng và nhiều giả thuyết đã được đặt ra về vấn đề này. Maine Coon từng có thời thịnh vượng trong các cuộc thi mèo vào cuối thế kỷ 19, tuy nhiên đến đầu thế kỷ 20 khi các nòi mèo lông dài khác được du nhập vào Hoa Kỳ thì vị trí của Maine Coon bắt đầu tụt dốc. Vào khoảng thời gian gần đây, danh tiếng của mèo Maine Coon lại bắt đầu khởi sắc và trong thời gian hiện tại nó là một trong những nòi mèo phổ biến nhất trên thế giới.
Đặc điểm nổi bật của mèo Maine Coon là cấu trúc xương lớn, cơ thể hình chữ nhật và bộ lông dài bồng bềnh. Maine Coon có thể có nhiều màu lông khác nhau và nổi tiếng bởi trí thông minh của chúng[5] cũng như tính tình hiền lành.[6] Các bệnh tật như trương phình cơ tim và loạn phát triển hông được ghi nhận có tồn tại ở nòi, tuy nhiên các biện pháp y học có thể giúp làm giảm tần số của những vấn đề trên.
Nguồn gốc của nòi mèo Maine Coon cho đến nay vẫn chưa được rõ ràng.[7] Những thông tin về xuất xứ của nòi mèo này chủ yếu là những giả thuyết cũng như các truyện kể dân gian. Một trong những truyện kể như vậy nói rằng vương hậu Pháp Maria Antonia của Áo trước khi bị xử tử đã lập kế hoạch trốn thoát với sự giúp đỡ của Thuyền trưởng Samuel Clough. Bà đem lên chiếc tàu của Clough một số vật dụng quý nhất của mình trong đó có 6 chú mèo cưng thuộc giống mèo Ankara. Mặc dù Maria Antonia của Áo đã không thể thoát khỏi cái chết, những chú mèo của bà đã du hành an toàn đến bờ biển Wiscasset, Maine; tại đây chúng lai giống với những con mèo lông ngắn địa phương và cho ra đời nòi mèo Maine Coon.[8]
Một chuyện kể khác nói rằng khi Thuyền trưởng Charles Coon cập cảng ở New England, những chú mèo lông dài trên tàu của ông cũng "đổ bộ" lên đất liền và giao phối với những con mèo hoang địa phương. Những cá thể mèo con sinh ra được gọi là "mèo của Coon"[9] và thế là nòi mèo Maine Coon ra đời.
Có một truyền thuyết dựa trên kiểu hình và đặc tính của Maine Coon - mặc dù xét về mặt di truyền là không thể[10] - là việc mèo Maine Coon là sản phẩm của sự lai giống mèo nửa hoang với gấu trúc Bắc Mỹ. Thuyết này bắt nguồn từ màu lông của mèo Maine Coon: chủ yếu là màu nâu kiểu mèo khoang và chiếc đuôi với lông dài như bồng bềnh.[11] Một giả thuyết khác là mèo Maine Coon ra đời từ sự giao phối của mèo nhà với linh miêu, thuyết này cho rằng đó là nguyên nhân của chòm lông nằm trên đỉnh tai của Maine Coon.[9]
Giả thuyết được chấp nhận rộng rãi hiện nay là Maine Coon là sản phẩm của việc lai giống giữa mèo nhà lông ngắn địa phương với mèo lông dài do các thủy thủ người Viking mang tới vào thế kỷ 11 hoặc những thủy thủ người Anh thời cận đại (có thể bao hàm cả Thuyền trưởng Coon trong truyền thuyết) đem lại.[11][12] Giả thuyết về nguồn gốc Viking được đặt ra do sự tương quan kỳ lạ giữa Maine Coon với mèo rừng mưa Na Uy - một giống mèo nhà cũng được cho là hậu duệ của những chú mèo đồng hành với các thủy thủ Viking.[13][14]
Tác phẩm văn học đầu tiên nói về mèo Maine Coon xuất hiện vào năm 1861 khi một chú mèo Maine Coon lông trắng đen mang tên Thuyền trưởng Jenks của Horse Marine xuất hiện trong một tác phẩm của F.R. Pierce, người viết một chương về mèo Maine Coon trong quyển "Sách về Mèo" (The Book of the Cat - 1903) của Frances Simpson và cũng là chủ nhân của một số con mèo Maine Coon.[15] Vào cuối thập niên, các nông dân ở Maine thường kể những câu chuyện về mèo của họ và bắt đầu tổ chức cuộc thi "Mèo Coon vô địch của bang Maine" (Maine State Champion Coon Cat) tại những kỳ hội chợ địa phương ở Skowhegan, Maine.[9]
Vào năm 1895, chừng một tá con mèo Maine Coon xuất hiện trong một buổi trình diễn mèo ở Boston, Hoa Kỳ.[16] Vào ngày 8 tháng 5 năm 1895, buổi biểu diễn mèo đầu tiên ở Bắc Mỹ được tổ chức ở nhà thi đấu Madison Square Garden ở Thành phố New York. Một con mèo Maine Coon cái, lông khoang màu nâu tên là Cosey của bà E. N. Barker tham dự cuộc thi và giành ngay giải Vòng cổ và huy chương bạc cùng danh hiệu "Best in Show".[17] Giải thưởng được trao bởi quỹ của Hiệp hội người yêu mèo (Cat Fanciers' Association - CFA) với sự tài trợ từ National Capital Cat Show. Vòng cổ bạc này hiện vẫn còn được lưu trữ ở Trụ sở Trung tâm của CFA tại Thư viện kỷ niệm Jean Baker Rose.[9]
Vào đầu thế kỷ 20, vị trí của Maine Coon dần dần đi xuống do sự cạnh tranh khốc liệt của các nòi mèo lông dài ngoại nhập như mèo Ba Tư đến từ Trung Á. Kể từ chiến thắng ở cuộc thi đấu mèo năm 1911 tại Portland, Oregon, suốt 40 năm mèo Maine Coon không giành được một giải thưởng nào và cũng ít được thấy sau đó. Sự xuống dốc của Maine Coon trở nên trầm trọng tới mức vào thập niên 1950 nòi mèo đã bị tuyên bố là tuyệt chủng, mặc dù lời tuyên bố này bị đánh giá là phóng đại và hấp tấp. Để cứu lấy nòi mèo này, Câu lạc bộ mèo Maine Trung tâm (Central Maine Cat Club - CMCC) đã được thành lập vào thập niên 1950 bởi Alta Smith và Ruby Dyer. Suốt 11 năm sau đó, CMCC đã tổ chức các cuộc thi mèo cũng như các buổi triển lãm về hình ảnh của nòi mèo và được ghi nhận là tổ chức đầu tiên thành lập nên tiêu chuẩn nòi giấy trắng mực đen cho mèo Maine Coon.[9]
Mèo Maine Coon đã bị CFA từ chối tư cách nòi tạm thời ba lần liên tiếp - một trong ba bước để CFA công nhận một nòi mèo chính thức và tư cách tham gia dự thi của nó[18] - vì vậy điều này đã dẫn tới sự thành lập của Câu lạc bộ Maine Coon (Maine Coon Cat Club) vào năm 1973. Cuối cùng, tư cách nòi tạm thời của Maine Coon đã được CFA công nhận vào ngày 1 tháng 5 năm 1975 và tư cách tham gia cuộc thi được công nhận vào cùng ngày năm sau. Hai thập niên kế tiếp chứng kiến sự thăng tiến của mèo Maine Coon với những chiến thắng ở các giải thi đấu mèo cũng như sự tăng tiến của vị trí trên bảng xếp hạng quốc gia. Vào năm 1985, bang Maine chính thức tuyên bố Maine Coon là loài mèo đại diện cho bang này.[19] Hiện nay, Maine Coon là nòi mèo phổ biến thứ hai tính theo số mèo con được đăng ký tại CFA. Vị trí thứ nhất thuộc về mèo Ba Tư.[9]
Maine Coons là một trong những nòi mèo nhà to lớn nhất. Con đực cân nặng vào khoảng 15 đến 25 lb (6,8 đến 11,3 kg) còn khối lượng con cái dao động từ 10 đến 15 lb (4,5 đến 6,8 kg).[20] Chiều cao của mèo trưởng thành có thể dao động trong khoảng 10 và 16 in (25 và 41 cm) và chiều dài có thể lên tới 40 in (100 cm) (tính cả đuôi với chiều dài có thể lên tới 14 in (36 cm))[21]. Đuôi của mèo Maine Coon khá dài, thon hình búp măng và có lông dày và dài, nhìn giống như đuôi của gấu trúc Bắc Mỹ. Cơ thể chúng khá rắn chắc và vạm vỡ, cần thiết để nâng đỡ trọng lượng lớn của chúng, và bộ ngực thì rộng. Mèo Maine Coon có cơ thể hình hộp chữ nhật và trưởng thành thể chất khá muộn: thông thường con vật chỉ đạt được kích thước tối đa khi vào khoảng 3 tới 5 tuổi trong khi các nòi mèo khác chỉ cần 1 tuổi để trưởng thành thể chất.[22]
Vào năm 2010, Sách Kỷ lục Guinness ghi nhận một con mèo Maine Coon thuần chủng tên là "Stewie" là cá thể mèo có chiều dài lớn nhất: 48,5 in (123 cm) tính từ đầu mũi tới chót đuôi.[23][24]
Maine Coon là giống mèo có bộ lông dài hoặc trung bình, mềm và mượt - mặc dù kết cấu lông có thể thay đổi tùy con. Đầu và vai mèo có lông ngắn hơn trong khi lông bụng và sườn thì dài hơn mặt bằng chung, một số cá mèo cũng có phần lông dài mọc quanh cổ tựa như bờm sư tử. So với các nòi mèo lông dài khác thì Maine Coon không yêu cầu phải được chủ chải chuốt nhiều do chúng tự chăm sóc lấy lông của mình đồng thời lớp lông lót có mật độ không cao. Bộ lông thay đổi theo mùa,[25] cụ thể lông mọc dày hơn vào mùa đông và mỏng đi vào mùa hè. Do kích thước lớn, móng của mèo Maine Coon cũng rất lớn và có nhiều trường hợp con vật dùng bộ móng đồ sộ của mình để bấu chặt vào tường.
Giống như nhiều nòi mèo khác, Maine Coon có thể có nhiều màu lông khác nhau. Màu lông có thể bao gồm những kiểu lai như màu sôcôla, màu hoa oải hương, màu kiểu mèo Xiêm hay màu muối tiêu, tuy nhiên tiêu chuẩn nòi không chấp nhận các kiểu màu này.[9] Bộ lông thông dụng nhất là màu nâu kiểu mèo khoang.[26] Tất cả các màu mắt đều được chấp nhận; tuy nhiên đối với mèo Maine Coon không có bộ lông trắng, các kiểu mắt xanh hay kiểu mỗi mắt một màu thì không được chuẩn y.[25]
Mèo Maine Coon có một số đặc điểm thể chất giúp thích nghi trong khí hậu lạnh giá. Bộ lông dày và không thấm nước của chúng dài và bờm xờm hơn ở mặt dưới và xùng sau lưng nhằm bảo bọc chúng tốt hơn khi con vật di chuyển hoặc ngồi trên các bề mặt ướt của tuyết và băng.[27] Chiếc đuôi dài và nhiều lông có khả năng chống chịu tốt trước sự sinking trong tuyết và có thể được cuộn quanh mặt để che gió, tuyết và cuộn thành vòng tròn sau lưng để làm một cái đệm ngồi giữ ấm trên các bề mặt lạnh của băng tuyết.[28][29] Móng vuốt lớn đặc biệt đối với các cá thể Maine Coon mắc tật tật dư ngón[30] giúp mèo di chuyển tốt hơn trên tuyết, đóng vai trò giống như những chiếc giày đi tuyết.[27] Những chùm lông dài giữa ngón có tác dụng giữ ấm và cũng giúp cho việc di chuyển trên tuyết bằng việc cung cấp cho ngón chân có thêm những cấu trúc phụ mà không làm tăng quá nhiều khối lượng.[29] Đôi tai mọc lông dày với những chòm lông dài mọc phía trong tai tạo thêm một lớp lông giữ ấm cho cơ quan này.[27]
Nhiều cá thể mèo Maine Coon ở New England có đặc điểm là nhiều ngón chân hơn bình thường.[27] Trong khi một số nguồn cho rằng từng có thời điểm đến 40% số mèo Maine Coon tại Maine mắc phải chứng dư ngón, ít có bằng chứng nào ủng hộ những thông tin như vậy.[31] Thật ra mèo Maine Coon dư ngón rất ít khi xuất hiện trong các cuộc thi mèo vì đây là đặc điểm không được chấp nhận theo tiêu chuẩn thi.[32] Đặc điểm dư ngón này do một gien trội nằm trên nhiễm sắc thể thường quy định[33] và không gây ra ảnh hưởng nghiêm trọng nào cho sức khỏe của con vật.[34] Tuy nhiên đặc điểm dư ngón này hiện gần như tuyệt tích bởi chọn lọc nhân tạo vì những con mèo dư ngón sẽ bị đánh rớt trong các kì thi.[35] Một số người gây giống và tổ chức tư nhân hiện đang cố gắng bảo tồn đặc điểm dư ngón này của Maine Coon.
Mèo Maine Coon được gọi là "người khổng lồ dịu dàng"[6] và có trí thông minh cao hơn mặt bằng chung vì vậy chúng tương đối dễ huấn luyện.[5] Chúng được cho là trung thành với chủ và cảnh giác cao - mặc dù không hung dữ - với người lạ, tuy nhiên khá độc lập và không có thói quen bám dính vào chủ.[28] Chúng cũng không phải là dạng mèo dễ dãi nhưng với tính khí hiền lành thì Maine Coon không tỏ ra khó chịu với sự có mặt của các vật nuôi khác và của trẻ em. Chúng cũng là nòi mèo thích chơi giỡn, trong đó con đực tỏ ra quê kệch hơn và con cái thì chững chạc hơn, nhưng nhìn chung là dễ mến.[27] Nhiều cá thể Maine Coon tỏ ra thích nước[28] và một số ý kiến cho rằng đặc tính này bắt nguồn từ việc tổ tiên của chúng thường xuyên ở trên tàu trong các chuyến hải hành.[7] Một tính cách nổi bật khác của Maine Coon là hay kêu, bao gồm việc kêu meo meo, chattering, chirping, và hay "nói chuyện" (nhất là "trả lời" lại chủ).[36]
Số liệu về bảo hiểm vật nuôi ở Thụy Điển xếp tuổi thọ trung bình của mèo Maine Coon vào khoảng trên 12,5 năm.[37] Mèo Maine Coon nhìn chung là một nòi khỏe mạnh và chống chịu tốt vốn đã thích nghi với môi trường và khí hậu ở những vùng như New England. Mối nguy lớn nhất về sức khỏe đối với Maine Coon là bệnh trương phình cơ tim, loại bệnh tim mạch phổ biến nhất ở mèo, bất kể là mèo nòi thuần chủng hay mèo tạp. Ở Maine Coon, chứng bệnh này được xem là một tính trạng trội quy định bởi gien trên nhiễm sắc thể thường. Mèo lớn tuổi thường dễ mắc bệnh hơn là mèo trẻ.[38] Trương phình cơ tim là một dạng bệnh nặng dần lên và có thể dẫn đến suy tim, liệt chân sau (do tắc mạch bởi máu đông bắt nguồn từ tim), hoặc đột tử.[39] Một đột biến đặc trưng gây ra trương phình cơ tim được nhận diện ở những con mèo Maine Coon khiến người ta phải tiến hành thử nghiệm cho đột biến này.[40] Trong tất cả những con mèo Maine Coon được thử nghiệm với đột biến MyBPC tại Phòng thí nghiệm Di truyền Tim mạch Thú y ở Trường Dược Thú y tại Đại học bang Washington, khoảng một phần ba cá thể cho kết quả dương tính.[41] Không phải tất cả những con mèo dương tính đều sẽ có các triệu chứng lâm sàng của bệnh và một số cá thể mèo âm tính thì có, và điều này có nghĩa là rất có khả năng trương phình cơ tim còn do một gien đột biến khác góp sức gây ra nữa.
Một bệnh phổ biến khác là teo cơ cột sống, cũng là bệnh di truyền với hậu quả gây ra là sự suy giảm về số lượng của các tế bào thần kinh ở tủy sống có chứng năng điều khiển các cơ ở thân và chi. Triệu chứng thường được thấy khi mèo được 3-4 tháng tuổi và hậu quả gây ra là teo cơ, muscle weakness và giảm tuổi thọ. Gien gây ra teo cơ cột sống có thể được phát hiện qua một thử nghiệm.[42]
Loạn phát triển hông là một bệnh về rối loạn khớp hông có thể gây ra tàn tật ở chi cũng như viêm khớp. Thường những con mèo đực của các giống mèo to và to xương tỉ như mèo Ba Tư và Maine Coon là bệnh nhân của chứng này. Chứng này ở mèo cũng tương tự như ở chó nhưng do kích thước và cân nặng nhỏ hơn nên mèo cũng ít bị bệnh hơn là chó.[43] Kết quả chụng X-quang của Quỹ chỉnh hình động vật (Orthopedic Foundation for Animals - OFA) từ năm 1974 đến 2011 cho thấy 24,3% số mèo Maine Coon trong dữ liệu của họ mắc chứng loạn phát triển hông. Maine Coon cũng là nòi mèo duy nhất nằm trong danh sách này của OFA.[44]
Bệnh thận đa u nang cũng là một bệnh nặng dần lên với tiến triển chậm tồn tại ở mèo Maine Coon; trước đây bệnh này được cho rằng chỉ xuất hiện ở mèo Ba Tư hay các nòi liên quan. Triệu chứng thường xuất hiện ở mèo 7 tuổi và hậu quả của bệnh thì không thể khắc phục được. Thận đa u nang thường dẫn tới suy thận và là bệnh di truyền, vì vậy sàng lọc và kiểm tra, thử nghiệm cẩn thận là phương pháp duy nhất để ngăn ngừa loại bệnh này.[42]
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your cat's connection to this breed and 20 others
Maine Coons are gentle giants with a loving, friendly, and sociable nature. They enjoy being in the middle of the action in your home and do well in families with children, dogs, and other cats. The Maine Coon is a water-loving cat and is the third most popular breed in the United States.
Tipping the scales at up to 20 pounds, the Maine Coon is one of the largest breeds. Despite their muscular and heavy-boned bodies, they are known to be quite agile. Maine Coons sport a thick double-layered coat and have bushy tails. They also have the longest whiskers of any other cat breed. The fur is more dense on the stomach and rear regions. They have signature long tufts on their ears and toes, and a bushy, racoon-like tail. These features serve them well in very cold environments.
The exact origin of the Maine Coon remains unknown, though many theories exist. One suggests that these elegant longhaired cats accompanied the Vikings from Europe as they journeyed to America. Another is that the Maine Coon was created in the state of Maine and that it is the ﬁrst, and therefore the oldest, breed native to the United States. It may come as no surprise that the Maine Coon is Maine's oﬃcial state cat.
A water-loving cat, this gentle giant is adored for its playful nature and dog-like loyalty. The Maine Coon can be rather vocal, expressing a wide range of complex sounds. These cats are generally obedient and possess above average intelligence, which makes them easy to train. It is not uncommon to see a Maine Coon walking on a leash.
This breed is known to be at a higher risk for developing hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), the most common feline heart condition that is associated with several genetic mutations. In the Maine Coon, an autosomal dominant mutation in the myosin-binding protein C gene has been identiﬁed in 33 percent of the breed. HCM is a progressive disease and can result in heart failure, paralysis of the hind legs, and even sudden death. Another genetic mutation frequently found in Maine Coon cats is the "Hemingway" mutation, which can result in the development of an extra toe (sometimes two). This harmless mutation is commonly referred to as polydactylism.
They are the third most popular breed in the U.S. Maine’s official state cat is beloved beyond its borders. According to VetStreet's analysis, the Maine Coon is the third most popular breed in the U.S., after the Siamese and Persian.
A Maine Coon starred in the famous Harry Potter movies. As many of the 90s kids will remember, Argus Filch, the cranky old man who seems to delight in the misery of the Hogwarts students, was a major cat-lover. He is rarely ever seen without his faithful cat, Mrs. Norris, played by three different kitties, including a female Maine Coon named Pebbles.
The world's longest cat was a Maine Coon. The world's longest cat, measured at 48.5 inches when fully stretched out, was Stewie, a Maine Coon who belonged to Robin Hendrickson from Nevada.
Maine Coons won America's first popular cat exhibit. One of the first well-known cat shows in the U.S. was held in 1985 at Madison Square Garden in New York City, NY. The winner of the event's "Best Cat" award was a brown tabby Maine Coon named Cosey. Maine Coons remained one of the most desired breeds in the U.S. for a long time until the Persian rose to an even higher status.
The International Cat Association (TICA) Maine Coon Breed Introduction
Cat Fanciers' Association "About the Maine Coon"
FETCH by WebMD "What to Know About a Maine Coon Cat"
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
