The Manx cat (/ˈmæŋks/, in earlier times often spelled Manks) is a breed of domestic cat (Felis catus) originating on the Isle of Man, with a mutation that shortens the tail. Many Manx have a small stub of a tail, but Manx cats are best known as being entirely tailless; this is the most distinguishing characteristic of the breed, along with elongated hind legs and a rounded head. Manx cats come in all coat colours and patterns, though all-white specimens are rare, and the coat range of the original stock was more limited. Long-haired variants are sometimes considered a separate breed, the Cymric cat.
Manx are prized as skilled hunters, and thus have often been sought by farmers with rodent problems, and been a preferred ship's cat breed. They are said to be social, tame and active. An old local term for the cats on their home island is stubbin or rumpy. Manx have been exhibited in cat shows since the 1800s, with the first known breed standard published in 1903.
Tailless cats, then called stubbin (apparently both singular and plural) in colloquial Manx language,[1][2] were known by the early 19th century as cats from the Isle of Man,[3] hence the name, where they remain a substantial but declining percentage of the local cat population. The taillessness arose as a natural mutation on the island,[4] though folklore persists that tailless domestic cats were brought there by sea.[3] They are descended from mainland stock of obscure origin.[5] Like all house cats, including nearby British and Irish populations, they are ultimately descended from the African wildcat (Felis lybica) and not from native European wildcats (Felis silvestris),[6] of which the island has long been devoid.[7]
The dominant trait of taillessness arises from a spontaneous mutation, the Manx taillessness gene, that eventually became common on the island because of the limited genetic diversity of island biogeography (an example of the founder effect and, at the sub-specific level, of the species-area curve).[8][9]
In the Manx language, the modern name of the breed is kayt Manninagh, literally 'cat of Mann' (plural kiyt or kit),[1][2][10][11] or kayt cuttagh lit. 'bob-tailed cat'.[11][12] Kayt, used as both a masculine and feminine noun, is also encountered as cayt,[13] and depending on the exact construction, it may be lenited as chayt or gayt.[14]: 138  The diminutive word is pishin or pishyn, 'kitten' (with various plurals).[1] Manx itself was often spelled Manks in English well into the late 1800s.[1][7]
There are numerous folktales about the Manx cat, all of them of "relatively recent origin";[15]: 7  they are focused entirely on the lack of a tail, and are devoid of religious, philosophical, or mythical aspects found in the traditional Irish–Norse folklore of the native Manx culture, and in legends about cats from other parts of the world.[15]: 7
The name of the promontory Spanish Head on the coast of the island is often thought to have arisen from the local tale of a ship of the Spanish Armada foundering in the area, though there is no evidence to suggest this actually occurred.[16] Folklore has further claimed that a tailless cat swam ashore from said shipwreck, and thus brought the trait to the island.[17] However, tailless cats are not commonly known in Spain, even if such a shipwreck were proven.[citation needed]
Regardless of the genetic and historical reality, there are various fanciful Lamarckian folktales that seek to explain why the Manx has a truncated tail. In one of them, the biblical Noah closed the door of the Ark when it began to rain, and accidentally cut off the tail of the Manx cat who had almost been left behind.[18] Over the years a number of cartoons have appeared on postcards from the Isle of Man showing scenes in which a cat's tail is being run over and severed by a variety of means including a motorcycle, a reference to motorcycle racing being popular on the island,[citation needed] and an update of the Noah story. Because the gene is so dominant and "invades" other breeds when crossed (often without owner knowledge) with the Manx, there was a folk belief that simply being in the proximity of a Manx cat could cause other breeds to somehow produce tailless kittens.[19]
Another genetically impossible account claimed that the Manx was the hybrid offspring of a cat and a rabbit, purporting to explain why it has no or little tail, long hind legs and a sometimes hopping gait.[17] The cat-rabbit halfbreed tale has been further reinforced by the more widespread "cabbit" folktale.
Populations of tailless cats also exist in a few other places in Europe, most notably Cornwall,[5] only 250 miles (400 km) from the Isle of Man. A population on the small, isolated Danish peninsula (former island) of Reersø in the Great Belt may be due to the arrival on the island of cats of Manx origin, by ship.[20] Similar cats are also found in Crimea,[5] a near-island peninsula in the Black Sea, though whether they are genetically related to maritime Manx cats or are a coincidentally similar result of insular genetic diversity limitations, like the unrelated Kuril Islands Bobtail, Karelian Bobtail, Japanese Bobtail, and Indonesian Lombok cats, is unknown. The Manx gene may be related to the similarly dominant tail suppression gene of the recent American Bobtail breed, but Manx, Japanese Bobtails and other short-tailed cats are not used in its breeding program, and the mutation seems to have appeared in the breed spontaneously.[21] Possible relation to the Pixie-bob breed, which also ranges from rumpy to fully tailed, is unknown.
Manx cats have been exhibited in cat shows, as a named, distinct breed (and with the modern spelling "Manx"), since the late 1800s. In that era, few shows provided a Manx division, and exhibited specimens were usually entered under the "Any Other Variety" class, where they often could not compete well unless "exceptionally good in size and markings".[19] Early pet breeding and showing expert Charles Henry Lane, himself the owner of a prize-winning rare white rumpy Manx named Lord Luke, published the first known (albeit informal) breed standard for the Manx in his 1903 Rabbits, Cats and Cavies,[19] but noted that already by the time of his writing "if the judge understood the variety" a Manx would be clearly distinguishable from some other tailless cat being exhibited, "as the make of the animal, its movements and its general character are all distinctive."[19] Not all cat experts of the day were favourable toward the breed; in The Cat: Its Points and Management in Health and Disease, Frank Townend Barton wrote in 1908: "There is nothing whatever to recommend the breed, whilst the loss of the tail in no way enhances its beauty."[5]
The Manx was one of the first breeds recognised by the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) (the predominant United States–based pedigreed cat registry, founded in 1908), which has records on the breed in North America going back to the 1920s.[22]
Although tail suppression (or tail length variety) is not the sole characteristic feature of the breed,[5] the chief defining one of the Manx cat is its absence of a tail to having a tail of long length, or tail of any length between the two extremes.[23] This is a cat body-type mutation of the spine, caused by a dominant gene.[24] As with the sometimes-tail-suppressed Schipperke dog and Old English Sheepdog, tail suppression does not "breed true" in Manx cats. Attempting to force the tailless trait to breed true by continually breeding tailless Manx cats to tailless Manx cats has led to increased negative, even fatal genetic disorders (see below). Tail length is random throughout a litter of kittens.[25] Manx to non-Manx breeding will usually produce some Manx-type tail varieties in kittens.[19] Whether the shorter tailed kittens of these varieties are labeled Manx is up to the breed standard consulted. Manx cats' tails are classified according to proportional tail length as kittens (the proportion does not change after birth):
Since the early days of breed recognition in the late 19th century,[19] Manx show cats have been rumpy through stumpy specimens, with stubby and longy Manx not qualifying to be shown except in the "Any Other Variety" or household pet class.[23] Kittens with complete tails may be born in a purebred Manx litter, having not inherited the taillessness appearance at all. Depending on the country and cat organization referenced, rumpy, rumpy risers and stumpies are the only Manx cat tail types that fit the breed standard for Manx cats. The longer cat tail lengths seen in some Manx cats are considered a breed fault, although they occur as naturally in the breed, but not as often, as the shorter tails. Although these longer tail types are of purebred Manx ancestry, they do not possess the dominant gene so cannot pass it on. However, since the Manx tail mutation gene is dominant, these longer-tailed purebred Manx cats may still be used in breeding programs and may even be considered in an effort to help avoid the fatal spinal deformities that sometimes result in tailless Manx cats.
The Manx breed is genetically distinct from the Japanese Bobtail breed, another naturally occurring insular breed. The Japanese Bobtail always has at least some tail, ranging from a small "pom" to a stubby but distinct tail, which is kinked or curled and usually has a slightly bulbous and fluffy appearance; by contrast, the Manx has a straight tail when one is present at all. The Japanese Bobtail has a markedly different appearance from the Manx, and is characterized by almond-shaped eyes, a triangular face, long ears, and lean body, like many other Asian breeds. The gene responsible for the bobbed or kinked tail in that breed is recessive and unrelated to the dominant Manx tail-suppression gene; the bobtail gene is not connected to any serious deformities, while the tail-suppression gene can, under certain conditions, give rise to a pattern of sometimes lethal health problems. The Pixie-bob breed also has a short tail, and may be genetically related to the Manx.  More will be clear about tail genetics as more genetic studies are done on cat populations and as DNA testing improves; most domestic animal genetic work has been done with dogs and livestock breeds.
Manx (and other tail-suppressed breeds) do not exhibit problems with balance;[30] balance is controlled primarily by the inner ear. In cats, dogs and other large-bodied mammals, balance involves but is not dependent upon the tail (contrast with rats, for whom the tail is a quite significant portion of their body mass).
Since Manx kittens are naturally born with any tail length, from none to long, it was formerly common to surgically dock the longer tails a few days after birth. Although illegal in many jurisdictions (including much of Europe), the practice was formerly recommended, although with the caveat that the commonness of the practice meant that many spurious Manx cats – i.e., random British cats – were altered to resemble the Manx, to defraud unwary buyers.[5]
Manx are medium-sized cats, broad-chested with sloping shoulders and flat sides, and in show condition are firmly muscular and lean, neither bulky nor fatty.[19] Lane reported the original, native breed as ranging typically from ten to twelve pounds for males and eight to ten pounds for females, with many smaller examples but only rare ones larger.[19] The hind legs of Manx are notably longer than the fore legs,[5][19] causing the rump to be higher than the shoulder and creating a continuous arch from shoulders to rump giving the cat an overall rounded or humped appearance,[23] though the breed is comparatively long[19] when stretched out. The fore legs are strong and straight.[19] The shape is often described as rabbit-like.[5][17]
Manx cats exhibit two coat lengths. Short- or long-haired, all Manx have a thick, double-layered coat. The colour and pattern ranges exhibited should conform to the standards for that type of coat in non-Manx.[19]
The more common short-haired Manx – the original breed – has a coat with a dense, soft, under layer and a longer, coarse outer layer with guard hairs.[23] The overall appearance of the coat is fine, short and lying close to the skin,[19] versus fluffy or voluminous.
The long-haired Manx, known to some cat registries as the Cymric, has a silky-textured double coat of medium length, with "breeches" (i.e. a distinct jump in fur length at the hocks giving the appearance of old-fashioned, baggy, knee-length pants[31] ) belly ruff and neck ruff, tufts of fur between the toes and full "ear furnishings" (hairs in ears).[23] The CFA considers the Cymric to be a variety of Manx and judges it in the short-hair division even though it is long-haired,[23] while The International Cat Association (TICA) judges it in the long-hair division as a distinct Cymric breed.[32] The long-haired variety is of comparatively recent development. Lane wrote in 1903 that the Manx "to the best of my knowledge, information and belief, does not include any long-haired specimens", in his detailed chapter on the breed.[19]
Regardless of coat length, the colours and coat patterns occurring in the breed today run the gamut of virtually all breeds due to extensive cross-breeding, though not all registries may accept all coats as qualifying for breeding or show. The most common coats are tabby, tortoiseshell, calico and solid colours.[citation needed]  Widely divergent Manx specimens, including even a colour-point, blue-eyed, long-haired variant of evident Himalayan ancestry, have been celebrated on Isle of Man postage stamps since the 1980s, and recent publications often show marbled and spotted varieties. The original insular stock, however, were of less widespread variation. Lane, having "seen a great many of them" wrote of Manx cats that "[i]t is curious that the colours in this variety seem somewhat limited" and that the breed "does not comprise all the colours usually associated with other short-haired varieties".[19] He reported only very common orange, common orange and white, common cream tabby, uncommon tortoiseshell, and very rare all-white specimens in 1903.[19] Calico and point-coloured are notably absent from this list, as are even today's common colourful tabbies. However, writing in England only five years later, Barton suggested that "the Manx may be of any colour, but probably orange is the most frequently met with."[5]
Specific registries have particular, and differing, standards of points with regard to coloration and patterning. For example, the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF) classifies the Manx as a variant of the British Shorthair (BSH),[33] and thus requires that Manx cats to have one of the coat patterns that would be permissible in the BSH rather than any that is exclusive to a "foreign" type (e.g. point colouration).  New Zealand Cat Fancy (NZCF) does likewise for colour and markings, but requires a double-coat and other Manx-specific features that GCCF does not.[34] Some other registries are even more restrictive, while others are more liberal.
Four new, consistent varieties have been developed from the Manx (the original version of which is now sometimes consequently called the Shorthair Manx). These are the Cymric (Longhair Manx), the Isle of Man Shorthair and Isle of Man Longhair, and the Tasman Manx, though only the Cymric has garnered widespread acceptance in breed registries as of 2014[update].
The Cymric or Manx Longhair is a tailless or partially tailed cat of Manx stock, with semi-long to long hair, e.g. as the result of cross-breeding with Himalayan, Persian and other longer-haired breeds early in its development. While its name refers to Wales (Cymru), the breed was actually developed in Canada, which has honoured the breed with a commemorative 50-cent coin in 1999.
Simply covering it in their Manx breed standards, the US-based Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA),[35] the Co-ordinating Cat Council of Australia (CCCA),[36] and the UK's Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF)[37] recognise the variety as a longer-haired Manx rather than "Cymric" (the CFA[35] and CCCA[36] call it the Manx Longhair, while GCCF uses the term Semi-longhair Manx Variant[37]).  The majority of cat registries have explicit Cymric standards (published separately or along with Manx).  Of the major registries, only the Feline Federation Europe (FFE) does not recognise the breed or sub-breed at all, under any name, as of October 2014[update] (their Manx standard was last updated 17 May 2004).
Resembling the British Shorthair, the Isle of Man Shorthair is essentially a fully tailed Manx cat. That is, it is a cat of Manx stock, with Manx features, but without any expression of the Manx taillessness gene. As of March 2013[update], it is only recognised by New Zealand Cat Fancy (NZCF) with its own breed standard. Any coat colour and pattern acceptable in the British Shorthair is permissible in the IoM Shorthair (the same restriction is applied to the Manx in the NZCF standard), and it requires the double coat of the Manx.[38] In other international registries (e.g. GCCF, who also treat Manx as a British Shorthair variant[33]), such cats are designated "Tailed Manx" and only recognised as Manx breeding stock (they are important as such, since breeding two tailless Manx together results in birth defects), and cannot be show cats.[37]
Essentially a fully tailed Cymric cat, i.e., a cat of Cymric (and thus Manx) stock, the Isle of Man Longhair has Cymric features, but without expression of the Manx taillessness gene. As of March 2013[update], it is only recognised as a separate breed by NZCF with a breed standard. Coat colours are limited to those acceptable in the British Shorthair, and requires the double, thick, long coat of the Cymric.[39]
Named after Tasman Sea between Australia and New Zealand, the Tasman Manx is a tailless or partially tailed Manx cat with a curly-haired coat not unlike that of a Selkirk Rex, due a recessive mutation which arose in Manx litters in both Australia and New Zealand. As of March 2013[update], the breed is only recognised by the NZCF[40] and the Catz Inc. registry[41]: 222–227  (also of New Zealand) with breed standards. The coat may be short or semi-long.
The type arose possibly without existing rex mutation bloodlines (and none of the rex breeds are permitted as out-cross partners with Tasman Manx in Catz breeding guidelines).[41] Depending on length of tail (if any) and coat, kittens may sometimes be termed "Tasman Cymric", "Tasman Isle of Man Shorthair" or "Tasman Isle of Man Longhair", but these are not considered separate breeds. The term "Tasman Rex" has been applied to cats with this gene that do not fall into one of the previously mentioned labels[42] (lacking the Manx face and body shape to qualify), though relation if any to extant Rex mutation breeds is unclear. All of these additional terms beyond "Tasman Manx" appear to be "recognised", even promulgated by NZCF[42] but without breed standards, and even the permissive Catz registry does not include them as of July 2014[update].[41]
The Manx taillessness gene is dominant and highly penetrant; kittens from two Manx parents are generally born without any tail. Being homozygous for (having two copies of) the gene is usually lethal in utero, resulting in miscarriage.[8][9] Thus, tailless cats can carry only one copy of the gene. Because of the danger of having two copies of the taillessness gene, breeders avoid breeding two entirely tailless Manx cats together.[43] Because neither parent carries the tailless allele, a fully tailed Manx bred to another fully tailed Manx results in all fully tailed kittens.
Some partial tails are prone to a form of arthritis that causes the cat severe pain,[18] and in rare cases Manx-bred kittens are born with kinked short tails because of incomplete growth of the tail during development.  Stumpy to long tails are sometimes docked at birth as a preventative measure.
"Manx syndrome" or "Manxness" is a colloquial name given to the condition which results when the tailless gene shortens the spine too much. It can seriously damage the spinal cord and the nerves, causing a form of spina bifida, as well as problems with the bowels, bladder, and digestion. Very small bladders are indicative of the disease, and it is often difficult to diagnose. Death can occur quite suddenly, and some live for only 3–4 years; the oldest recorded was a female cat named Pharrah at 7 years when affected with the disease. In one report, it was shown to affect about 30% of Manx cats studied, but nearly all of those cases were rumpies, which exhibit the most extreme phenotype.[9] Feline expert Roger Tabor has stated: "Only the fact that the Manx is a historic breed stops us being as critical of this dangerous gene as of other more recent selected abnormalities."[44]
The breed is also predisposed to rump fold intertrigo, and to corneal dystrophy.[45] In a review of over 5,000 cases of urate urolithiasis the Manx was noticeably under-represented, with an odds ratio of 0.35.[46]
Some tailless cats such as the Manx cats may develop megacolon, which is a recurring condition causing constipation that can be life-threatening to the cat if not properly monitored.  It is a condition in which, due to absence of a tail, the smooth muscle that normally contracts to push stools toward the rectum loses its ability to do so.[citation needed][47]
Following on updated genetic research, both the Australian Cat Federation and (less stringently) the GCCF impose special breeding restrictions on Manx cats (and derived stock like the Cymric), for animal welfare reasons.[48]
In 2013, prior to initiation of the Manx Cat Genome Project (below), genetic mutations in the brachyury gene were shown to be responsible for failure of tail development in the Manx cat, as well as four other tailless breeds of cat.[49] Mutations in orthologs of this gene have been shown to cause tail-loss defects in a number of other species, notably the mouse. Mutations in the human version of the brachyury gene are associated with a range of neural tube defects.[50]
To better understand the genetics of the breed, the Manx Cat Genome Project (MCGP) was launched in August 2015, as a crowdfunded volunteer project by computational biologist Rachel Glover of Douglas, Isle of Man,[51] to perform the first whole genome sequencing of the Manx cat, uncovering the genetic mutations that make the Manx distinct from other cat populations, and to contribute data to the genome databases at the 99 Lives Cat Genome Sequencing Project of the University of Missouri,[52][53][54] and the US National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI).[55][56] It is the Isle of Man's first gene sequencing programme,[53][55] with samples collected and data analysed by MCGP in the Isle of Man, with the input of scientists around the world,[51] initial sequencing work being performed by the firm Edinburgh Genomics[57] and the University of Edinburgh in Scotland[58] and by 99 Lives, and server resources donated by Isle of Man biomedical information technology company ServiceTech.[52]
The project aims to answer four questions:[54]
One desired result of this research is the development of tests that can be used to keep the breed healthy by identifying cats which should not be bred.[59] A minimum of three cats' genes will have to be sequenced to obtain the required genetic data.[58]
After the initial fundraising goal was reached in December 2015,[60] the first cat sequenced was a purebred Manx calico rumpy named Bonnag, selected because the registry of this dam (breeding female) and her kittens in the British Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF) aids controlled study of a specific bloodline.[57] Bonnag's samples were sent for sequencing in April 2016,[57] with raw gene sequence results received by MCGP in August 2016; the laborious process of genome assembly has begun, to be followed by comparison with previously collected cat genomic data from 99 Lives, and eventual peer-reviewed publication of the results in a scientific journal.[61] Fundraising for the second genome to be sequenced by the project began September 2016; costs dropped to UK£1,400 per cat in November 2015,[62] and as of April 2016 dropped to about £1,200,[58][63] using the Illumina HiSeq X Ten sequencer,[62] down from original projections of £10,000[52] before the X Ten was available for non-human sequencing.  The dramatic drop in costs allowed the first cat's sequencing to be done well ahead of the original schedule.[58] MCGP has already identified the location of the mutation responsible for suppression of Bonnag's tail, the deletion of a single bit of genetic data among 2.8 billion making up the genome.[58]
The selected second sample is from a kitten that had to be euthanised for Manx syndrome, and it is hoped that this new sequence can identify the genetic specifics of the condition and why it only affects some offspring.[64][65]
Fancier's often describe the Manx as being doglike in behaviour.[66]
These beliefs about the Manx's behaviour were not described in the past.
Lane's early and experienced account of the temperament of this "variety, which is quaint and interesting" is simply that they were "docile, good-tempered and sociable", and that a prize specimen should be "an alert, active animal of much power and energetic character."[19]
Manx are prized as hunters, known to take down larger prey (e.g. adult rats) even when they are young, and were thus long in demand[citation needed] for working roles like farm cat (Manx: lughder or lugher 'mouser', from lugh 'mouse')[14]: 507  and ship's cat (screeberagh or screeberey[14]: 138  loosely 'scratcher, scratchy-one', from screebagh or screebey 'scratching, scratchy, scraping').[14]: 662–3
The Isle of Man uses the Manx cat as one of the symbols of the island nation and its unique culture. On Isle of Man currency, Manx cats are the subject of the reverse of four special commemorative crown coins. The first two, issued in 1970 and 1975, are stand-alone releases in both copper-nickel and silver proofs, while the third, in 1988, inaugurated an ongoing series of annual cat coin issues that have also been produced in gold in various sizes; an almost-hidden Manx cat appears in the background on each of the 1989-onward releases featuring other breeds.[67] A Manx, with a kitten, was the featured cat again in 2012.[68]
A Manx cat, in stylized Celtic knotwork art, also appears on the island's 1980–83 penny. The breed figures on numerous Isle of Man postage stamps, including a 2011 series of six that reproduce the art from Victorian era Manx cat postcards,[69][70] a 1996 one-stamp decorative sheetlet, one stamp in a 1994 tourism 10-stamp booklet, a 1996 five-stamp series of Manx cats around the world, and a 1989 set of the breed in various coat patterns, plus two high-value definitives of 1983 and 1989. The cat appears prominently as the subject of a large number of tourist goods and Manx pride items available on the island and over the Internet, serving (along with the triskelion and the four-horned Manx Loaghtan sheep) as an emblem of the Isle of Man.
The Norton Manx motorcycle line (1947–1962, Norton Motors Ltd.), though ostensibly named after the Isle of Man TT road race (which the brand dominated for decades, until the 1970s), was long promoted with Manx cat badges, in the forms of both enameled metal pins and sew-on patches. The Manx Norton has experienced a major revival among modern enthusiasts of classic motorcycle racing.
The Meyers Manx (1964–1971, B. F. Meyers & Co.) is the original, much-copied Volkswagen Beetle–based dune buggy, and broke desert racing records shortly after its introduction. It was named after the cat, due to its design – short-bodied, tall-wheeled, and manoeuvrable. The original designer has revived and updated it as the "Manxter" (2000–present, Meyers Manx, Inc.).
A popular flying model aircraft of the late 1950s was the Manx Cat, sold in kit form as the Manx Cat V, and in printed plan form as the Manx Cat I through IV, with progressively larger wings. Designed by Bob Buragas, the hand-launched biplane model is constructed of balsa wood, features a very short tail (thus the name), has a 32.5 inch wingspan (in versions IV and V), can accommodate .19 to .35 engine sizes, and can be modified with a Dumas Spectrum "combat" wing. It was profiled in hobbyist magazines, like the February 1957 Flying Models (which details the history of the different models, including a miniature Manx Kitten version), and the October 1958 American Modeler.
A Grimjack comic book story, The Manx Cat, was serialised as a Comicmix.com webcomic in January 2011, and has since seen print as a six-issue miniseries by IDW Comics. The story involves "The Manx Cat", a statuette of such a cat that at first seems to be a simple MacGuffin like the classic Maltese Falcon of the novel and films of that name, but which begins showing malevolent powers. The plot thickens with time travel, reincarnation, and Cthulhu Mythos-style "elder gods". Like most modern comics, it features digitally-colored art, over hand-drawn pencil work.
In popular music, Florrie Forde released a 1930 recording of a Dan Leno Jr comedic music hall song, "What Happened to the Manx Cat's Tail?", as the B-side of "Stein! Stein! Ev'rywhere We Go", on an 8-inch, 78 RPM gramophone record (serial number 1430 on the Edison Bell Radio label).[73]
--------------------------------------------------
Cat Breeds
The Manx is one of a few tailless cat breeds, yet it’s probably the best-known as it is more widespread than Kurilian Bobtail and Japanese Bobtail cats, which share some similarities. Depending on location and registry, these cats might have long or short hair in a variety of different colors - and it’s worth noting that some purebred cat registries refer to long-haired Manx cats as Cymric cats.
While the Manx cat breed standard requires show quality animals to be either tailless or nearly tailless, pet quality Manx cats may have slightly longer tails. In fact, there are a few nicknames for Manx cats with different tail lengths. “Rumpy” manx cats are completely tailless, while “rumpy risers” have small stubs. “Stumpy” manx cats have partial tails, and a manx with a nearly full length tail is called a "Longy."
Social and intelligent, members of the Manx family are often compared to dogs thanks to their high play drive and their tendency to develop strong bonds with their human friends and animal companions alike.
These cats are incredibly athletic, with powerful hind legs. Their ability to jump to great heights means that their families often find them peering down from the highest cupboard in the kitchen, or perhaps from the top of the refrigerator.
Not only do Manx cats enjoy high jumps, they have an intense sense of curiosity. Their agile paws easily jiggle open latches and the drawer pulls, enabling access to small areas filled with your most fascinating belongings.
If you bring a Manx into your life, don't be surprised if you find them following you to the shower, where they'll hide behind the curtain or door and reach in to catch droplets with their paws. Perhaps because of their island origins, Manx cats have a tendency to like water – unless, that is, you're attempting to bathe them!
Fantastic personalities make Manx cats outstanding companions for nearly any family - and adorable, unusual looks make them even more fun to spend time with.
Manx cats have no special dietary needs; however, it is best to offer a high-quality diet that includes real meat or fish as the number one ingredient.
Shorthaired Manx cats require brushing just once or twice per week to remove excess hair. If you have a long-haired Manx, plan to brush them at least once per day to prevent mats from forming in their fine undercoat.
As the Manx is prone to jumping and climbing with great vigor, you may wish to keep their claws trimmed short as a method of providing some protection for your belongings.
One more thing: Just like other breeds, Manx cats benefit from at home dental care. Consider teaching your kitten to accept toothbrushing from a young age.
The Manx typically displays incredible athletic prowess, running at high speeds, leaping to the highest possible heights, and climbing anything that happens to be available. Tall cat towers, scratching posts, and a wide variety of toys can help satisfy your cat's play drive. Since Manx cats appreciate interactive play, look for toys that let you be part of the action, too!
Many Manx cats enjoy excellent health, however the breed is prone to certain issues including a birth defect called Manx syndrome. Manx syndrome is a spinal abnormality that affects the central nervous system, causing issues such as constipation, incontinence, and hind leg paralysis.
The Manx has a higher than average risk of Feline Lower Urinary Tract Diseases including bladder stones.
Skeletal malformations can occur as well, sometimes leading to major problems and sometimes simply affecting the cat's gait. If your cat has a malformation, it’s possible that they will ultimately need some help managing arthritis symptoms as they get older.
The Manx cat originated on the Isle of Man, located in the Irish Sea. There, members of the breed were originally referred to as "stubbin" cats, a term that some locals continue to use today.
Like all domestic cats, the Manx is a descendent of the African wildcat (Felis lybica). The first domestic cats to arrive on the Isle of Man probably had long tails, but one or more had to be carrying the dominant gene that causes natural, tailless mutation. The spontaneous mutation that causes Manx cats to be born without tails became more common on the Isle of Man due to a lack of genetic diversity over time.
These unique cats were a bit of a curiosity when they were first exhibited in cat shows during the late 1800s. The first Manx cat breed standard was developed in 1903, and the breed has the distinction of being among the first breeds to be officially recognized by the Cat Fanciers Association. Its Manx registry records go back to the 1920s.
Today, all major cat registries accept Manx cats, and responsible breeders frequently outcross with tailed domestic cats to enhance genetic diversity and continue improving the breed.
Four other breeds have been developed using Manx cats as foundation stock. These include the Isle of Man shorthair, the Isle of Man longhair, the Tasman Manx, and the Cymric cat.
Manx cats will happily play on their own, but really thrive on interactive play. If you have a Manx, don't be surprised if they learn how to play fetch early on. It's one of their favorite games.
Manx cats are incredible hunters. Given the opportunity, they will bring down mice, insects, and other small creatures. Any small, prey-type pets such as birds, hamsters, and guinea pigs should be securely kept, well out of reach.
The Manx cat is very popular on its native Isle of Man, where its likeness can be found on numerous items including coins and postage stamps.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Manx, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Manx or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Manx, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Manx cats cost between $500-$1,500.
Manx cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Manx cat might weigh between 7-13 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 10"-14" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Manx is 12-16 years.
Manx are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
The post does a great job detailing the unique characteristics of the Manx cat, including its taillessness and playful nature. It’s informative and well-structured, making it easy for readers to understand the breed’s traits, care needs, and potential health concerns. The section on their dog-like personality and intelligence is particularly engaging. Adding more personal anecdotes or owner experiences could make it even more relatable. Overall, it’s a well-rounded and valuable resource for anyone interested in Manx cats!
I found my sweet Marcy at the Humane Society. I cannot believe she was ever a stray–she is so beautiful smart and special. Just a tiny little nub where a tail would be. All round with funny legs. She is so smart and playful.
I had a manx that lived to be 22. She was the runt of her litter and was abandoned by her mother, which I already owned, under my front porch. We fed her by bottle until she could eat solid food, and even full grown she was maybe five pounds, with no-tail and a dark-brown/light-brown tortoise shell pattern. She was mainly an outside cat, but sometimes came in to take naps and hang out. The garden beds and bushes in front of our home were perfect for blending in with the dirt and catching any prey. She frequently killed voles, birds, and even a squirrel one time, always an excellent hunter even in her advanced age. As for diet, we just fed her normal plain-Jane dry cat food, occasionally cans of soft food, and often fresh raw fish while filleting (local trout, bass, crappie) or cooked chicken when we had it for dinner. Always had a minimal appetite though, her whole life. The only health problems I can think of that she had was a strange boil on her side on time, maybe an infected bug bite or some kind of spider bite. Vet didn’t know what to do with it. It popped and went away on its own, and she ended up coming out fine, that was at age 15 maybe. She occasionally got UTIs, which were treated with antibiotics. She had some problems where her colon would prolapse a bit when she was constipated, but thankfully she let my wife gently push it back in with some baby oil every time. All in all, excellent cat. Good around kids (mine at least), most dogs, used to fight with chickens though. She certainly had an attitude to her. Drew blood from my father-in-law when he tried to pet her, ha. I’ve had many cats of many breeds over the years, at one point we owned almost twenty cats, and I’ve not had a bond or owned one as intelligent as that one in my life.
Thanks for sharing your special story.
I have a Manx cat. I’ve had many cats in my life, but my Manx is the smartest and most affectionate cat I’ve ever had! If you’re looking to get a cat get a Manx. You won’t regret it.
Nice! Thanks for sharing.
I rescued a stray yellow Manx kitten a couple of months ago. She was living under a trailer with her mama.  I was told her littermates all disappeared. I found a home for mama and kept the kitten because I so quickly fell in love with her. She follows me everywhere, loves the dog and other cat, is curious about everything and seems to very much enjoy interactive play. After losing two cats (one cancer, the other congestive heart failure), Allie is helping me heal. She is going to be a wonderful.
Thank you for sharing. I’m glad you found a little friend to help you heal from the loss of your old cats. Take care!
Thank you so much. Recent loss of two hurts.  Allie is a joy.
Thanks so much.
Does anyone know where I can get a pedigree Manx cat from. I live in Australia having trouble locating one..
Hi Chris, I had trouble finding this as well—some of these Facebook groups might help you to connect with people who know more.
Manx Cats and Kittens Australia
Manx Cats and Kittens For Rehoming and Rescue
Hope this helps, and I wish you all the best!
I’m pretty sure my son has a Manx . Mikey is a 2 year old tuxedo cat from a tuxedo bob tail stray Mom adopted my son’s friends. The stray Mom had 7 kittens and Mikey was a tuxedo bobtail as well.
He has really round eyes, bobtail, back legs longer from the front so that when he runs he hops like a rabbit and he prefers wet food to dry food though he does like some dry treats. He’s very affectionate though he doesn’t stay long when he’s picked up. He’s two now and weighs about 11 pounds.
My manx is a silver tabby stumpy. He is intelligent, social, and very loving. He loves to catnap on my lap. We also have a beagle hound that “Bob” is affectionate of. Bob rubs against her and head butts her to get her attention. Bob will initiate a game of chase, run around a tree stump a couple of times then jump up onto the tree stump and watch the beagle go round and round the tree stump with her nose to the ground “trailing” Bob’s scent. He seems to have a “Garfield” like smurk on his face while he watches the crazy dog going round in circles looking for him.
Hi Willie, thank you for sharing! Bob sounds like a delight.
I went to get one of my Granddaughters kittens, i was so surprised to find out they were manx. I just love them, I had three births Tuesday. One of the is white but they have long tails. I love their personality!
Thanks for sharing!
I love my manx boy.   Coolest cat ever.   Very social.  If you’re cool, you’re in his pride.  He likes cool people, cool cats and cool dogs.
My husband’s family had a manx. We were never sure if the tail was docked or this was a real breed. We always laughed when she held of two racoons who were trying to get 2 hot dogs left on the grill after it had cooled off…Itsy Bitsy who was NOT Itsy at all , and could not jump up on the grill herself , but she wasn’t allowing either or both of them to get her hot dogs…They finally left and she got the hot dogs in the morning when we came down for breakfast….
--------------------------------------------------
Manx cats are recognizable by their most striking feature -no tail or a very short tail. Some have a small stub, while others have no tail at all. This distinctive taillessness or “rumpy” feature is the hallmark of the breed. They are believed to have originated on the Isle of Man, a small island located in the Irish Sea.
Manx cats are a distinct and captivating breed known for their taillessness, friendly personalities, and historical significance. They make wonderful companions for families and individuals who appreciate their unique features and loving nature.
When considering a Manx, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Manx breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Is it really a cat if it doesn’t have a tail? It is if it’s a Manx. There are lots of cats with short tails or no tails, but the Manx (and his sister breed the longhaired Cymric) is the only one specifically bred to be tail-free. Sometimes jokingly said to be the offspring of a cat and a rabbit (however cute the idea, a “cabbit” is biologically impossible), the tailless Manx is the result of a genetic mutation that was then intensified by the cats’ remote location on the Isle of Man, off the coast of Britain.
The cats are thought to date to 1750 or later, but whether a tailless cat was born there or arrived on a ship and then spread its genes throughout the island cat population is unknown. The island became known for tailless cats, and that is how the breed got its name of Manx. The Manx is recognized by the Cat Fanciers Association, The International Cat Association, and other cat registries.
This is a medium-size cat who weighs 8 to 12 pounds and feels surprisingly heavy when lifted. The Manx matures slowly and may not reach his full size until he is five years old.
The Manx began life as a mouser, and he retains his fine hunting skills and alert nature. With a Manx around the house, you don’t need a watchdog; you’ve got a “watchcat” who reacts rapidly and will growl threateningly or maybe even go on the attack at the sight or sound of anything out of the ordinary. If he sees that you aren’t alarmed, he’ll settle back down.
When he’s not protecting his family and property from mice, stray dogs, or other threats, however, the Manx is a mellow fellow: an even-tempered and affectionate cat who enjoys serene surroundings. That’s not to say he is inactive. This is a happy, playful cat who likes to follow his favorite person through the house and assist with whatever he or she is doing. When you are ready to relax, though, the Manx will be in your lap, ready for a comfy nap. If no lap is available, he’ll curl up on the nearest available spot that allows him to keep an eye on you.
He “speaks” in a quiet trill and will carry on a conversation if you talk to him. The Manx has an adaptable nature if he is exposed to activity and other people as a young kitten. He will enjoy meeting new people, greeting them with a gentle head butt or cheek rub, and can adapt to a new home or family if such an upheaval in his life is necessary.
This is a smart cat who can learn tricks, including fetch and come, and is willing to walk on leash if taught early. He often likes to ride in the car, making him a great companion on long-distance trips. It’s not unusual for the Manx to enjoy playing in water—he is an island cat, after all—and you may find him turning on faucets or “fishing” in a fountain. He is also good at learning how to open doors, so be sure anything you don’t want him to have is under lock and key.
Unlike most cats, the Manx is willing to accept boundaries and will usually respect your wishes if you tell him no when he jumps on the counter or scratches on your sofa. Just be sure you give him an acceptable alternative as thanks for his nice behavior. The Manx is highly people-oriented. Choose him only if you can give him plenty of time and attention daily.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Manx are generally healthy, but the following diseases have been seen in the breed:
The soft, short coat of the Manx is easily cared for with weekly brushing or combing to remove dead hair and distribute skin oil.  Check the rear end closely to make sure feces aren’t clinging to the fur surrounding the anus, and clean it if necessary to prevent the cat from smearing poop on carpets or furniture.
Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Like all cats, Manx are very particular about bathroom hygiene. It’s a good idea to keep a Manx as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Manx who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Manx is known for his lack of a tail, but not every Manx is completely tailless. Some, known as “longies,” have a normal-length tail, and others, known as “stumpies,” have short tails. A Manx with no tail is called a “rumpy” and one with just a rise of bone at the end of the spine is known as a “riser.” You will see only rumpies and risers in the show ring, but cats with tails can be used in Manx breeding programs.
A Manx has other distinguishing characteristics as well, including a round head with large round eyes, a stout, powerful body with a broad chest, short back and broad, round rear end, short front legs and long hind legs with muscular thighs. The long rear legs give him the appearance of a rabbit and may be the source of the “cabbit” myth.
The Manx has two different coat lengths: a short double coat or a longhaired double coat. The longhaired Manx is called a Cymric in some cat registries, but the Cat Fanciers Association simply considers the longhair a variety of Manx. In both lengths, the coat comes in many different colors, including various solids, tabbies, tortoiseshells and calicos. Chocolate and lavender colors and the pointed Himalayan pattern are not permitted. This is a medium-size cat who weighs 8 to 12 pounds and feels surprisingly heavy when lifted. The Manx matures slowly and may not reach his full size until he is five years old.
If he is introduced to them in kittenhood, the active and social Manx is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He will play fetch as well as any retriever, learns tricks easily and loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect. He lives peacefully with cats and dogs who respect his authority and can learn to leave birds and fish alone. An adult Manx may not appreciate children as readily, especially if he is used to a quiet household. Always introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your cat's connection to this breed and 20 others
Originally called the "stubbin" cat, the affectionate, friendly, and inquisitive Manx cat is a loyal companion who makes for a wonderful family pet. Known to be a vocal kitty, the Manx loves to tell you all about their day. You will often find this "mini race care driver" zooming around looking for fun, in between seeking playtime and lots of cuddles with you.
The Manx is a medium-sized cat with a signature feature: no tail, which earned them the nickname "Stumpy" or "Rumpy". However, Manx's born with slightly more tail than others are often referred to as "Rumpy Riser". The Manx is shorthaired, but there is a longhaired version known as the Cymric.  Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) states that the longhair gene was introduced during the rule of the Vikings, when the Norwegian Forest Cats that hitched rides on Viking ships to the Isle of Mann freely bred with native Manx cats. The Manx sports all coat colors and patterns, and their frame is heavy-boned and compact with powerful hind legs. They typically have long lifespans of 16+ years.
The Manx cat originated on the Isle of Man, a self-governing British Crown Dependency off the coast of northern England in the Irish Sea. Considered one of the oldest cat breeds, the Manx is associated with lore of old, including stories of Noah's Ark. It is said that a sweet Manx cat napping outside of the ark woke as the door was closing, making it inside just in the nick of time but unfortunately losing its tail. Other stories tell of the Manx's prowess in rodent hunting, and that they made good shipmates and lived on trading ships that sailed from Phoenicia to Japan. The word 'stubbin' was found in writings around 1750, and a the first picture of a Manx was displayed in a painting from 1810. Cat fanciers' records from the 1800s also hold records of the Manx cat.
The highly affectionate, sweet, and always on the go Manx is sure to capture your heart. They enjoy the company of children, other pets, and adults in equal measure and are very loyal. Manx are often water lovers, and known to follow their humans to the bathroom where they may play at the sink faucet or hang out behind shower curtains when the water is on. The Manx is also known as a highly intelligent and athletic cat, and they love to jump with their incredibly powerful hind legs. Manx are incredibly fun cats to have around and will keep you and your family endlessly entertained!
While the Manx is often considered a healthy breed, the genetics behind their short tail is associated with Max syndrome, which is a congenital spinal abnormality that can cause incontinence, constipation, and weakness or paralysis of the hind legs. The Manx can also suffer from skeletal malformations that affect their gait, which can lead to arthritis as they age.  Their coats do require regular grooming, at least once or twice per week. Longhaired Manx do shed more, so daily brushing helps prevent mats and tangles.
Incredible hunters. Manx have a high prey drive and are well-known for their hunting prowess. They'll capture insects inside or outside the house, and you'll never have a mouse problem. However, its best to keep prey-type pets, such as birds and hamsters, securely out of reach of your Manx.
Little locksmiths. The Manx puts its agile mind to work to open drawers, jiggle handles and latches, and otherwise get into mischief exploring things behind closed doors. Keep this in mind as you're storing those valuables!
Cat of Mann and fun language facts. Manx is also a Gaelic language, said to be closely related to Irish and Scottish Gaelic. "Kayt Manninagh" in Manx translates to "cat of Man(n)", a nod to the breed's long history on the Isle of Man.
The International Cat Association (TICA) “Manx At A Glance ”
Cat Fanciers' Association "About the Manx"
FETCH by WebMD "What to Know About A Manx Cat"
Hill's Pets "Manx Cat Information and Personality Traits"

Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Learn more about how Purina and Petfinder are making a difference together.
7 to 11 inches
8 to 12 pounds
Any color or combination of colors besides the Siamese pattern
Medium
8 to 14 years
no
Manx cats are social and gregarious furry friends who are gentle and affectionate with people and pets they know. They can be aloof with strangers. They are strongly devoted and loyal to their families. Highly intelligent, playful, and fun to have around the whole family, they can make great family pets, even with smaller children. Manx cats have a strong fascination with water, but by no means do they want to get wet—they just might splash and make a bit of a mess. They also love to climb and are skilled jumpers thanks to their powerful, rounded hind legs.
Manx cats originate from the Isle of Man, a small island in the Irish Sea between Ireland and England. There are many legends and stories that have been made up or conceived over the years surrounding how and why they lost their tails; however, geneticists believe that the breed's taillessness is a result of a spontaneous mutation within the island’s domestic cat population. The unique tail is a dominant gene for the breed but is a recessive gene in most other species. The Manx cat breed made its way to America in the 1880s.
Ideal Manx owners will enjoy spending quality time playing with their cat. While they do make good family cats, Manx cats feel best in calmer households that will not have a constant stream of visitors.
These energetic cats will need plenty of exercise and playtime. Manx cats love hunting games and interactive food dispensing toys that simulate catching their prey. Manx kittens and cats can jump and climb, so cat trees—the taller the better—are ideal.
The Manx cat would love to spend time outdoors as they are built for it; however, they have hunting tendencies that need to be managed. A cat-proofed yard is ideal so they can get the outdoor time they crave in a safe way.
Manx cats will do most of the grooming work themselves; however, frequent brushing is always recommended to help control shedding and keep their coats clean.
The Manx cat breed is considered relatively easy to train due to the breed’s intelligence, responsiveness, and enthusiasm for learning. With positive reinforcement and patience, they can learn numerous tricks and skills.
Manx cats make great family pets. They are sociable, playful, friendly, and affectionate and do very well with children and other pets.
The cost of a Manx from a breeder is significantly more than the cost of adopting one from a local shelter or rescue. The adoption fee usually covers additional items such as spaying or neutering, vaccines, and microchipping.
Interested in adopting a Manx cat or kitten? Here are answers to some common questions about bringing one of these charming cats home.
Manx cats aren’t rare, but all-white Manx cats can be difficult to find.
Yes, Manxes make excellent pets due to their dog-like behavior and affectionate and devoted demeanor.
Learn more about feeding and caring for your Manx on Purina.
Looking for a cat breed that's great for children? Look no further than these playful, affectionate companions.  Cats are suitable pets for families with children because they are low-maintenance and easy to care for. However, you'll want to consider your family’s lifestyle in order to choose the r
Trimming your cat’s nails regularly can help to minimize the damage caused by scratching. Your veterinarian can help you trim your cat’s nails or you can learn to trim them at home. 

 To start, give your cat treats and praise for each nail, and know when to call it quits. If you can get only one
--------------------------------------------------
