The Munchkin is a breed of cat characterized by its very short legs, which are caused by a genetic mutation. Compared to many other cat breeds, it is a relatively new breed, documented since 1940s[1] and officially recognized in 1991.[2] The Munchkin is considered to be the original breed of dwarf cat.
Much controversy erupted over the breed when it was recognized by The International Cat Association (TICA) in 1997 with critics voicing concerns over potential health and mobility issues.[3] Many pedigree cat associations around the world have refused to recognize the Munchkin cat due to the welfare of the breed and uncertainty of the health issues,[4] including the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF).[5] Breeding of Munchkin cats is prohibited by law in several countries due to these genetic health concerns.
The name derives from writer L. Frank Baum's diminutive inhabitants of Munchkin Country, originating in the 1900 novel, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.[6][7][8]
Short-legged cats have been documented a number of times around the world since the 1940s. A British veterinary report in 1944 noted four generations of short-legged cats which were similar to normal cats except for the length of the legs. This line disappeared during the Second World War but other short-legged cats were spotted in Russia during 1956 and the United States in the 1970s.[1]
In 1983, Sandra Hochenedel, a music teacher in Rayville, Louisiana, found two pregnant cats who had been chased under a truck by a dog.[9] She kept one of the cats and named her Blackberry and half of her kittens were born short-legged. Hochenedel gave a short-legged male kitten from one of Blackberry's litters to a friend, Kay LaFrance of Monroe, Louisiana, and she named the kitten Toulouse.[9] It is from Blackberry and Toulouse's litter that today's Munchkin breed is descended.[9]
The Munchkin cat was first introduced to the general public in 1991 via a national network televised cat show held by The International Cat Association (TICA) in Davis, Oklahoma.[10] However, the breed would not be officially recognized at that time. Critics predicted that the breed would develop back, hip and leg problems similar to those that plague some dachshunds.[11] For many years, the Munchkin breed was not accepted in feline competitions due to the controversial breeding.[9] Solveig Pflueger, a show judge, geneticist, and chairperson of TICA's Genetics Committee was a strong advocate for the official recognition of the breed. Pflueger was also a breeder of Munchkin cats herself, having been initially sent two cats from Hochenedel.[11] Amidst much controversy, the Munchkin was proposed as a new breed by foundation breeders Laurie Bobskill and Robert Bobskill of Massachusetts and accepted by TICA into its new breed development program in September 1994. Veteran show judge Katherine Crawford resigned in protest, calling the breed an affront to breeders with ethics.[9][12] The Munchkin breed achieved TICA championship status in May 2003.[1]
Currently, the only registries that fully recognize the breed are TICA, the Southern Africa Cat Council, the Australian Cat Federation, the World Cat Federation, and Catz Incorporated (New Zealand).[13][14][15] There is controversy among breeders of pedigree cats as to what genetic mutations are abnormal and potentially disadvantageous to the cat.[16] Katie Lisnik, director of cat protection and policy at the Humane Society of the United States, has said: "Breeding animals for exaggerated physical characteristics, particularly when it compromises overall health, is irresponsible".[17] Several cat registries do not recognize the Munchkin: Fédération Internationale Féline, which refuses to recognize what they consider a breed based on a "genetic disease", achondroplasia.[18] The Governing Council of the Cat Fancy likewise refuses to recognize the breed, considering this breed and others like it to be "unacceptable" because they are based on an "abnormal structure or development".[5] The breed is also not recognized by the Cat Fanciers' Association.[19]
Several[quantify] countries and territories have prohibited breeding with Munchkins, including the Netherlands (2014), which prohibits breeding of all animals with genetic defects,[20] and Victoria (Australia).[21] The Australian Capital Territory (a territory of Australia) government considers the Munchkin breed to be "malformed animals" and the deliberate breeding of them "unacceptable" because of the "genetic health problems associated with such breeding".[22]
Munchkin cross-breeds like the bambino have also been subject to legal restrictions.
Some sources state that the shortness of their legs does not interfere with their running and leaping abilities,[23] while others state their ability to jump is limited by their condition.[4]
The Munchkin has similar characteristics to normal domestic cats, due to their frequent use as outcrosses. It is a small to medium-sized cat with a moderate body type and medium-plush coat. Male Munchkins typically weigh between 6 and 9 pounds (2.7 and 4.1 kg) and are usually larger than female Munchkins, which typically weigh between 4 and 8 pounds (1.8 and 3.6 kg). The hind legs can be slightly longer than the front which creates a slight rise from the shoulder to the rump. The legs of the Munchkin may be slightly bowed, although excessive bowing is a disqualification in the show ring. Cow-hocked legs are also penalized.[1][10]
The Munchkin comes in all coat colors and patterns. It also comes in a long-haired variety, which is shown in a separate Munchkin Longhair category. The short-haired variety has a medium-plush coat while the long-haired has a semi-long silky coat.[1] TICA rules for outcrossing allows the use of any domestic cat that does not already belong to a recognized breed. Similarity to other breeds is grounds for disqualification. Non-standard Munchkins are not allowed to be shown.[24]
In 2014, Lilieput, a Munchkin cat from Napa, California, was named the shortest statured living cat in the world by Guinness World Records. She stands 5.25 inches (133 mm) tall.[25]
The mutation that causes the shortened legs in the Munchkin is a chondrodysplasia. The Munchkin cat has an increased incidence of lordosis[26] and pectus excavatum (hollowed chest).[27]
Munchkin cats are known to be at a higher risk (than other feline breeds) for severe osteoarthritis because the shorter limbs affect their activity levels and behavior.[4][28] Diagnosis of osteoarthritis and the assessment of its severity for a cat may require radiography.[4]
Many pedigree cat associations around the world have refused to recognize the Munchkin cat due to health concerns.[4]
The gene causing chondrodysplasia in the Munchkin cat is caused by an autosomal dominant mutation. Only heterozygous cats are viable.[26]
Punnett squares, in which the M represents the dominant Munchkin gene and the m represents the recessive normal gene, may be used to illustrate the chances of a particular mating resulting in a short-legged cat.
For each kitten conceived from this mating, there is a 25% chance it will fail to gestate, a 25% chance it will be normal, and a 50% chance it will be short-legged.
For each kitten conceived from this mating, there is a 0% chance it will be homozygous for the Munchkin gene, a 50% chance it will be normal non-standard (long legged) Munchkin, and a 50% chance it will be a standard (short legged) Munchkin.
The popularity of the Munchkin[29] has led to the crossbreeding of the Munchkin with other breeds, to try to establish new, derived breeds, most of which are unrecognised by any major registry. Some named experimental crossbreeds (all of them dwarf cats) include:
--------------------------------------------------
Cat Breeds
The Munchkin cat is so much more than an adorable little pet: These cats are sweet natured, personable, and playful. With extra short legs that contribute to the breed's nickname "Dachshund of the cat world," these kitties tend to be on the small side. They may have short or long hair, and they come in every color imaginable.
Thanks to the bouncy, short strides they take when running, Munchkin cats are often compared to rabbits and ferrets. The truth is, they are 100% feline, with magnetic personalities, a strong play drive, and an intense love of cuddling.
As you might have guessed, this breed is named after the Munchkins from The Wizard of Oz. Their short legs are caused by a naturally occurring genetic mutation that is caused by an autosomal dominant gene. Munchkin cat breeders select for this gene, which affects leg bone length. These kitties don't know that their legs are far shorter than the average cat's; they simply enjoy life a little closer to the ground! To get a better view, they’ll often stand on their hind legs.
Munchkin cats come in three different heights: Standard, supershort, and rug hugger. Leg length affects the height only; the rest of the cat's body is proportioned like that of an average domestic cat.
You might think that Munchkin cats can't jump. While it is true that their leaps are not as impressive as those of average sized cats, many individuals can make it from the floor to the seat of the couch or the top of your bed with ease. Since they aren't likely to leap onto tall tabletops and high display shelves, members of the Munchkin cat breed might be ideal for people who love cats but worry about the impact they might have on collectibles.
One thing is certain: Bring a Munchkin into your home, and you'll instantly fall in love with their adorable looks and charming personalities.
Munchkin cats do not have any special nutritional requirements, however it is best to offer a high-protein diet. If you are not feeding your cat fresh food, be sure to choose a high-quality brand that includes real meat or fish as the first ingredient.
Munchkin cats' grooming routines vary depending on their coat length. If your Munchkin has a short coat, then you'll want to brush them just once or twice per week to remove any loose hair. If you have a long-haired Munchkin cat, daily grooming is essential.
Keep your kitty's claws clipped to prevent damage to your belongings, and consider teaching your kitten to allow toothbrushing from a young age.
Since Munchkin cats love to play, it isn't at all difficult to encourage them to get enough exercise. These kitties absolutely love their toys and they love it even more when their human companions take time out for interactive play. As Munchkin cats get along very well with other pets including well-mannered dogs, they will enjoy playtime together when given the opportunity.
Your Munchkin cat might not need a super tall cat tree, but they need a few scratchers, particularly those that are close to the ground and within easy reach. Sprinkle your kitty's scratcher with catnip to encourage them to sink their claws into appropriate materials only and to bring out even more playfulness.
If your Munchkin shows an interest in climbing, providing them with a cat tree will save your furniture and provide your kitty with an elevated vantage point that they'll appreciate.
It's very important to note that breeding one Munchkin cat to another Munchkin cat can lead to serious health problems in the offspring. If you plan to adopt a Munchkin kitten, be sure that you work with a responsible breeder or adoption agency. Responsible Munchkin breeders outcross cats with the short legged gene with cats that do not carry the gene. This greatly reduces the risk of health issues that could cause discomfort and early death.
Munchkin cats are at a higher than average risk for osteoarthritis, which can become severe with age. Some individuals also suffer from a condition called pectus excavatum, which causes a hollow chest.
The Munchkin cat breed is relatively new, although individual cats with shorter than average legs have been noted and even encouraged throughout history.
The breed's story begins in 1983, when a female cat was rescued in Louisiana. She had been abandoned outdoors, and had been chased under a pickup truck by a dog. This cat, later named Blackberry, was pregnant and gave birth to a litter that included some kittens with short legs. Her rescuer, Sandra Hochenedel, gave one of the male short-legged kittens to a friend named Kay LaFrance. This kitten was named Toulouse, and was eventually bred back to Blackberry. Their offspring formed the foundation for the Munchkin cat breed as we know it today.
Responsible breeders do their best to ensure that kittens are healthy and comfortable in their bodies. Instead of pairing registered Munchinks with one another, they outcross Munchkin cats with domestic cats and other purebreds, ensuring a diverse gene pool and reducing the likelihood of genetic diseases.
The International Cat Association (TICA) and the Southern Africa Cat Council are the only registries that currently accept Munchkin cats. Much controversy surrounds the breed, as not all breeders take responsibility for preventing painful issues that adversely affect the welfare of the individuals they produce.
TICA granted the Munchkin cat breed championship status in 2003, but no progress toward advancing the Munchkin's status in the world of cat fancy has occurred since then.
Munchkin cats love to collect small, shiny objects. This trait is so prevalent that the breed has been nicknamed "The magpie of the cat world!"
If you're looking for a pet that's friendly with strangers, you might want to consider a Munchkin cat. These kitties like just about everyone they meet and will happily hop into a newcomer's lap.
The Munchkin cat's short legs lead people who are unfamiliar with the breed to believe that these cats are very slow-moving. In fact, the opposite is true: Munchkin cats are capable of running at high speeds. Since they're so low to the ground, they are able to make tight turns like a low-slung racecar!
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Munchkin, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Munchkin or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Munchkin, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Munchkin cats cost between $1,000-$2,000.
Munchkin cats tend to be small in size. A fully grown Munchkin cat might weigh between 4-9 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 6"-9" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Munchkin is 12-15 years.
Munchkin are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
Michael & Christine, Diva Kits did scam me out of a lot of money.  After a year, I requested a refund and Connie will not reply to my request going on 6 months now. Do you know where I can get some help with this? Any help would be appreciated
Hi Michael,
Check on Facebook there are also good reputable breeders on line. But beware of scammers. Munchkins are highly desirable and their popularity has led to lots of people willing to prey on people looking to adopt one. They are also expensive, and both breeders and scammers have taken advantage of that fact. If you’re lucky you may find one for 1000 dollars but most likely it will be up to three times more expensive. Check out diva kits Scottish Fold Munchkins she is legit but you may have to wait for your kitty. But she isn’t going to take your money and not make with a cat. Plus they offer carrier services if you can’t make it to Orlando to pick up your cutie. Hope that helps. Let me know where you find your fur ever friend or if you get one from Connie.
Would like to adopt a munchkin cat in mass. Is there an available list to look at? Can I be notified when one comes available?
Hi Michael,
We currently don’t list any partical breeders on the site.
We recommend to look at https://tica.org/munchkin-breeders
--------------------------------------------------
Information about the short-legged Munchkin cat has been around since the 1940s. A British veterinary report in 1944 noted these short-legged cats.
During the 2nd World War, the cats disappeared but other short-legged cats were seen in Russia during 1956 and then the  United States in the 1970s.
The cat was introduced to the general public in 1991 but for many years it wasn't accepted in cat competitions. Eventually, the Munchkin was proposed as a new breed by foundation breeders and accepted by TICA into its New Breed development program in 1994. The Munchkin breed achieved TICA Championship status in May 2003. The Cat Fanciers Association doesn’t recognize the Munchkin.
The Munchkin is a small to medium-sized, muscular cat with a thick coat that comes in all colors and patterns. In fact, color, pattern, and coat length will vary.
There is also a long-haired variety. It usually weighs between 3 and 4kg. It has short, stubby little legs and a torso that hangs fairly low to the ground. The cat’s back legs are somewhat longer than the front legs. The legs of these cats can be slightly bowed. The eyes can be any color.
The Munchkin is such a social, outgoing cat that just loves being petted and pampered by his human family. He is sociable and friendly as well as intelligent and is easy to train. While he is an amicable cat and can get on well with everyone in the family, it isn’t a good idea to have such a cat as a playmate for children as they can become injured.
An interesting feature with this cat is the way he doesn’t really sit like other cats but has a way of sitting up on his legs, much like a rabbit.
The Munchkin may be short and stock but he is just as active and playful as any other cat. When you have him in your home, you'll discover that his short little legs don't stop him from trying out everything other cats do.
He is ready to show you what he's made of. He is a confident, social cat and is friendly, intelligent, and loving towards his human family. He makes a devoted companion and he will get along with other cats in the family as well as dogs.
He may be a bit odd to look at but if you want an excellent companion, the Munchkin is well worth your consideration.
Because this is a fairly new breed, it's still not too clear about its health. It was once thought that the Munchkin cat could develop spinal problems because of its short legs.
It was in 1995 that some breeders had some of their older Munchkins x-rayed to see if there were any signs of joint or bone problems, but none were found.
The Munchkin cat should also be vaccinated as a kitten and be treated for parasites. To ensure the good health of your sweet little Munchkin cat, give him the best diet possible.
In fact, if you take good care of your Munchkin and you make sure to get all the necessary vaccines for him and get him to the vet when he shows signs of illness, your munchkin can reach 12 to 15 years of age.
Every cat is unique and the Munchkin is a unique cat, This little cat is a carnivore just like any other cat and his diet must be made up mostly of protein.
Speak to your vet about the best food for your Munchkin because a kitten will require a different diet to a senior Munchkin. Also, you don’t want your Munchkin to put on too much weight as this can be detrimental to his joints.
Not only that, being overweight comes with all kinds of health issues. The manufacturers of commercially manufactured cat foods have made sure that they have brought out foods for every stage of a cat's life and age.
Munchkin cats will need to have their fur brushed at least once a week. Trim the claws at the same time.
Provide your sweet little Munchkin with a litter box and keep the litter box immaculately clean, removing the feces every single day.
--------------------------------------------------
Known for their Dachshund-like silhouette, Munchkins may be short in height, but are long on fun. They are available in various colors and both hair lengths. Their cuddly and curious nature has captured the hearts of cat lovers across the world. Find out why and if this breed is right for you and your family.
Playful
Medium-sized
Despite popular belief, Munchkins do not remain kitten-sized over their lifetime. Their legs remain short, but the body size is considered average as an adult cat.
5-7 pounds
7-10 pounds
15-18+ years
Munchkins are available in all colors
Munchkins are available in all colors


Munchkins are very sociable cats that are extremely spirited and love to run, chase and play with toys. They are extremely curious and will sit up on their hind legs like a rabbit to get a better view of something that has caught their attention. These self-assured cats leave no stone unturned or corner unexplored. Once you know them, these lovable little cats capture your heart forever.
While quite active, Munchkins have no problem climbing into bed and snuggling with their owners. They are a good choice for families with children and other pets.
The Munchkin is a short-legged cat. Its distinctive short legs developed from a spontaneous autosomal dominant mutation which has occurred several times in the domestic cat. Munchkins exhibit shortening and may have slight bowing of the long bones. The spine is unaffected and similar in form and flexibility to that seen in other domestic cats. The short legs do not hamper mobility or survival ability. The breed has been established from spontaneously occurring domestic cat lines with augmentation by outcrosses to other domestic cats. Munchkins are outgoing, intelligent, and respond well to being handled. They are accepted in both long and short coat lengths. The Munchkin and the Munchkin Longhair are distinguished only by the appearance of the coat, the shorthair having a medium length plush, resilient all-weather coat and the longhair a semi-long silky all-weather coat.
Munchkin cats are highly intelligent. They are curious enough to steal small objects or hunt. They are also very adept at retrieving small objects in games of fetch and can learn to walk on a leash in no time.
Their lower body height allows them to swiftly slide under objects without having to stop and bend down. Munchkins can run very fast, similar to squirrels, and are capable of keeping up with canine companions and children. They may not jump from the floor to the top of a refrigerator in a single bound but they will show off their jumping prowess and intelligence as they find a path that takes them there in smaller steps.
Want to connect with fellow cat lovers and those who love the same breed as you?TICA is a large resource made up of smaller regions and clubs around the world.Click here to find a club near you and contact information for your regional director and website.
Wherever you are, you’re in TICA’s world!®
The TICA website is the only place where you can find TICA member breeders who have signed the TICA Code of Ethics.
How did the breed get its name? The name “Munchkin” derives from writer L. Frank Baum’s diminutive inhabitants of Munchkin City in the 1939 novel The Wizard of Oz.
Lilieput from Napa, CA, holds the world record for smallest living cat. In 2013, The Guinness Book of World Records named Lilieput – a tortoiseshell Munchkin cat from Napa, California – the world’s shortest living cat. The diminutive kitty stands a mere 5.25 inches tall from the bottoms of her paws to the top of her shoulders.
The Munchkin breed arose from a genetic mutation. Like many pedigreed cats, the Munchkin breed arose from a spontaneous genetic mutation. Their short legs are caused by an autosomal dominate gene, which causes the long bones in a cat’s legs to develop at a shorter length. A cat only needs one copy of the gene to inherit short legs and to pass the trait along to its kittens.
The Munchkin cat is known for his hoarding tendencies. Much like the Magpie, Munchkin cats will beg, borrow and steal small, shiny objects and stash them away for a rainy day. In fact, some refer to Munchkins as magpies due to this quirky characteristic.
The racy, low-slung Munchkin is built for speed and agility. To appreciate these bundles of energy, one has to know one. They have lots of energy and great cornering speed-just like the sleek race cars they resemble-and tend to stay low to the ground although they are perfectly capable of jumping. They are a cat that provokes a reaction because of their short legs-those that do not know the cats in person see only a handicap whereas those that know them have come to love the bundle of joy that sees no limits. Badgers, ferrets, otters, raccoons, and squirrels are just a few of the animals in the wild that have short legs to help them survive-some are diggers, some are climbers and, in the case of otters, some are swimmers, but their short legs have evolved to help their survival skills. Dachshunds, Bassetts, and Corgis are a few of the dog breeds developed with short legs for specific purposes-Bassets are scent hounds and short legs put them closer to the scent while Corgis are herding dogs that need to turn on a dime, with rapid twists and turns to herd the animals in their charge. Munchkins are the same as every other cat-except they have short legs, speed & exceptional cornering skills, and a great deal of love to offer their devoted owners.
The Munchkin is not a new mutation. Short-legged cats have been recorded throughout the years and around the globe. In a British veterinary report in 1944, Dr. H E Williams-Jones described four generations of short-legged cats including an 8-year-old black female that had extremely healthy life. The report stated that her dam, grand-dam and progeny all were similar and the only difference between them and normal cats were the short legs. This line disappeared during WWII. The trait was also seen in Stalingrad in 1956, in New England in 1970 and Louisiana in the 1980s. In 1983 Sandra Hockenedel found a pregnant short-legged female that became the foundation for the breed we call the Munchkin. Sandra named the cat Blackberry. She gave a male, Toulouse, from one of Blackberry’s litters to her friend Kay LaFrance and it is from these two cats that the breed was established using domestic cats as an outcross to ensure a diverse gene pool.
TICA accepted the Munchkin into its New Breed development program in September 1994. The program tracks the pedigrees of cats used to create the new breeds and monitors the breeding statistics as the breed develops under the oversight of the Genetics committee. The breeding data showed that the short legs in the cat followed a dominant pattern of inheritance like that in the Corgi and the Dachshund. After years of development and observation, the Munchkin achieved TICA Championship status effective May 2003.
These sociable cats are extremely playful and love to run, chase and play with toys. They love company including children, dogs and other pets, leading them a merry chase as they zoom by in their games. Munchkins are extremely curious and will sit up on their hind legs like a rabbit to get a better view of something that has caught their attention. These self-assured cats leave no stone unturned or corner unexplored. They may not jump from the floor to the top of the bookcase in a single bound but they will show off their jumping prowess and intelligence as they find a path that takes them there in smaller steps. Once you know them, these lovable little cats capture your heart forever.
Munchkins come in both coat lengths and a veritable painter’s palette of colors and patterns. The colors and patterns have been introduced through the outcross program that maintains the breed’s genetic diversity. In some cases, other breeds have been used to introduce specific features. However, a Munchkin is a unique breed and should never resemble a miniaturized version of another breed. Shorthaired Munchkins have a medium-plush, all-weather coat whereas the longhairs have semi-long, silky all-weather coat.
They are a small to medium sized cat and weigh between 5 and 9 pounds when fully grown. Other than their short legs, they look just like any normal cat. The short legs are a natural mutation that shortens the long leg bones similar to the one that gives the Corgis and Dachshunds their short stature. However, the spine of the cat differs in structure from that of a dog and so the short legs do not result in the spinal problems that sometimes appears in canines. And any concerns about mobility are quickly erased as you watch the Munchkin dashing around and cornering tightly in whatever game they are playing.
Grooming is quick and easy. Shorthair Munchkins should be combed once a week to help remove loose dead hair. Comb the longhaired Munchkins twice a week to remove the dead hair and prevent tangles or mats from forming.
Under the oversight of the TICA Genetics Committee, Munchkins are born with a gene that shortens the long bones in the legs. They are essentially a domestic cat on short legs. No other bones are affected, including the spine as is common in dwarf dog breeds. Munchkins are NOT prone to arthritis and do not have trouble walking or moving any more than other breeds as they get older. Many years of research have validated that there are no debilitating genes associated with this breed. A pedigreed Munchkin should not need testing for any breed-related diseases, unless they are a Munchkin hybrid.
The Munchkin’s coat is easy to groom.
Shorthair Munchkins should be brushed once a week with a fine-tooth comb to remove dead hair.
Longhair Munchkins have an easy-to-manage coat, with no underlying heavy undercoat. They can be combed at home with a wide-tooth comb or pet brush twice a week to remove the dead hair and prevent tangles or mats from forming.
To maintain good hygiene, it is a good idea to occasionally bathe your Munchkin, even though they will clean themselves with their tongues. Specific shampoos are available to accentuate their coat color, however, a bath using a few drops of traditional Dawn dish soap in 8 ounces of water can be used to remove any dirt or grease on the coat.
Keep their nails trimmed, ears cleaned and teeth brushed regularly with a vet-approved pet toothpaste and provide a nice tall scratching pole to help their natural scratching instinct.
Munchkins do not have any particular nutritional needs, other than good, quality, dry kibble. A wet diet is not required; however they enjoy a healthy variety of processed canned food occasionally.
Occasional raw meat will feed their natural instinct as carnivores. Contrary to popular belief, a raw chicken neck is a great source of natural vitamins. Never serve cooked chicken as the cooking process may cause the bones to splinter. Ground meats should be avoided, as Munchkins tend to regurgitate them. However, sliced raw beef and cans of baby food meats in small quantities are a healthy option, but if given in excess can cause diarrhea.
As with all cats, it is important to give your cat fresh, clean water daily. Fresh, clean water is best, so cats don’t hesitate to drink. The water bowl should be placed at least three feet away from any food. Cats’ noses are sensitive and an overwhelming smell of food may cause them to drink less. Due to their short legs, a bowl with low sides is best to avoid spilling or a water fountain to encourage drinking.
Join the Cat Care Community!
Sign up now for exclusive monthly cat care tips delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your name and email below to stay updated with the best advice for your kitty companions!
"*" indicates required fields
--------------------------------------------------
The Munchkin is a medium sized cat, moderate in body type and head shape, with a thick, plush coat. The coat comes in all colours and patterns, and there is also a long-haired variety.
The Munchkin is notable for their leg length as owing to a genetic mutation, the Munchkin has very short legs, which in turn gives the cat a rather long, low appearance.
The short leggedness of the Munchkin breed is a deformity that means that they are prone to developing arthritis.
If your first thought on meeting a Munchkin is ‘cat-weasel’, you wouldn’t be far wrong. The Munchkin can find it hard to jump (although many can) and they move very differently to standard legged cats, with a much wrigglier, rolling motion.
Curious, intelligent, friendly and playful, the Munchkin is in other respects much like any domestic cat, possibly more inclined to enjoy handling and lap-time than some, but equally keen to exercise their feline hunting behaviour by chasing and hunting toys if given the opportunity.
Originating in the USA, the Munchkin mutation was first spotted in a litter of stray kittens in 1983. Although short legged cats have been noted a number of times since the 1940’s, this was the first time such kittens were kept and bred from to recreate the short-legged appearance.
Their existence as a pedigree cat is somewhat controversial with few cat registry associations recognising them at all. It is thought that the short-legged gene also results in health problems and opinions are divided as to whether these cats should be produced intentionally.
Strictly an indoor cat, the Munchkin may not believe it to be true but they are not equipped for life outdoors in the ‘wild’ as it were, and should be kept indoors or in a house with a secure cat-run attached.
Whilst some Munchkins can jump and climb, the relative length of leg to back means that back injuries are more of a risk than in a more traditionally built cat. Avoid your Munchkin jumping or being encouraged to take risky jumps by providing steps and ramps to vantage points rather than climbing trees. Munchkins do like to play hunting games with toys on strings and will enjoy food dispensing toys that recreate parts of the hunting sequence.
Every cat is unique and each has their own particular likes, dislikes, and needs when it comes to food. However, cats are carnivores and every cat must obtain 41 different and specific nutrients from their food. The proportion of these nutrients will vary depending on age, lifestyle and overall health, so it's not surprising that a growing, energetic kitten needs a different balance of nutrients in her diet than a less active senior cat. Other considerations to bear in mind are feeding the right quantity of food to maintain 'ideal body condition' in accordance with feeding guidelines and catering to individual preference regarding wet or dry cat food recipes. Find out more about cat feeding guidelines with our article.
The Munchkin may struggle to reach parts that other cats can reach when grooming, so a weekly or bi-weekly cat groom will help. Long coated Munchkins will need grooming every day. Remember that a greasy coat can be evidence that your cat is no longer attempting to groom themselves, which can be indicative of poor or failing health. As with all cats, Munchkin cats’ benefit from regular vaccination, parasite control and an annual veterinary health check.
The Munchkin is a specialist cat that requires owners who are home much of the time, a home with many elements designed around their inability to jump and their easily damaged backs, and a home without very young or boisterous children.
--------------------------------------------------
