Cat Breeds
Also known as the long-haired Russian blue, the Nebelung cat is a relatively new breed as well as one of the rarest cat breeds in existence.
If you are lucky enough to bring a Nebelung cat into your home, you can expect a friendly, laid-back companion with stunning good looks to match an outstanding personality. This cat's silvery topcoat and pure blue undercoat lend a magical appearance that's much admired. This kitty is silky soft and while it is technically a long-haired breed, the coat is actually a medium length; longer than that of a shorthair cat but not near so long as that of a cat with very long hair, i.e. a Persian.
Nebelung cats are wonderfully affectionate, with lots of love to share with their families. They're fond of curling up for long naps and TV watching sessions, and given the chance, they'll cuddle up with her favorite people at bedtime.
The Nebelung cat is as playful as it is gentle. This breed is highly intelligent, and is easily taught how to play fun games like fetch. These kitties can learn how to walk on leashes, which allows for safe exploration of the outdoor world and provides some much-needed exercise.
While some breeds need constant attention from their people, the Nebelung cat is all right with a bit of alone time. This doesn't mean you can leave your cat unattended for days on end, but it does mean that your kitty will be okay entertaining itself while you're away at work. Of course, these cats get along well with kids and other pets, and they appreciate the opportunity to socialize whenever it arises, so long as socialization takes place within their family group.
Speaking of socialization, it's very important to introduce the Nebelung cat to a variety of situations, sounds, and people from a very young age. These kitties are prone to nervousness and require a bit more socialization than the average cat.
The Nebelung cat has the same nutritional needs as most other breeds, meaning a high quality, high-protein diet is essential for good health. You may want to choose a food with added Omega fatty acids to support skin and coat health and keep this beautiful kitty looking its best.
Since the Nebelung cat has a thick double coat, regular grooming is essential. This cat requires daily brushing to prevent mats from forming. Frequent grooming reduces shedding, which in turn keeps your furniture cleaner and reduces the frequency of hairballs.
Even though the Nebelung is a gentle cat breed in general, these kitties still have an instinctual need to jump and climb. Keeping their toenails trimmed helps prevent damage to your furnishings. If you plan to trim your cat's claws, it's best to teach them how to accept this routine from a young age.
Last but not least, you may want to teach your cat how to have its teeth brushed a few times per week. At home dental care is an excellent habit since it helps prevent periodontal disease and can cut back on costly professional dental cleanings particularly later in life.
Like all other cats, the Nebelung cat requires plenty of physical exercise to maintain strength and agility. Treat your cat to the proper exercise equipment – a cat tower, if you scratching posts, and plenty of toys, including interactive options that let you join in the fun – and you'll be setting them up for a lifetime of well-being.
Nebelung cats are sometimes prone to obesity with age, however you can help prevent it by encouraging your cat to be active.
The Nebelung cat is quite healthy in general, with a lifespan that extends well over 15 years in some cases. At this time, there are no known concerns.
The Nebelung cat breed was developed in the 1980s when Cora Cobb, a woman who owned two blue-grey cats that looked like Russian Blues, but with semi-longhaired coats. These cats, named Siegfried and Brunhilde, ultimately became the foundation for the Nebelung breed.
This didn’t happen without some effort on Cora Cobb’s part. With the help of an American Cat Association feline geneticist named Solveig Pfleuger, who determined that Cobb’s beloved pets were best defined as semi-longhaired Russisan Blue cats, Cobb presented a breeding standard that incorporated all traits of the Russian Blue breed with the exception of the coat length.
The International Cat Association (TICA) revised Cobb’s description after Russian Blue breeders voiced their objections. The new breed - now known as Nebelung - would be held to standards that more closely resembled early blue-grey cats imported from Russia beginning in the 19th century.
Today, the Nebelung cat breed is recognized by a few registries worldwide including Livre Officiel des Origines Felines (LOOF), the World Cat Federation (WCF), and the American Cat Fanciers Association (ACFA) as well as a few independent associations.
Despite growing interest and popularity, it is still difficult to find Nebelung cats in most places.
The word Nebelung is a descriptive term that translates to "Creatures of the mist" in German.
Like a few other breeds, the Nebelung cat has a tendency to choose a favorite person.
While some cats are highly adaptable, the Nebelung is not fond of change. These cats often hide when strangers come to visit, and they can suffer from a bit of anxiety whenever something changes in their environment. It can take some time for a Nebelung cat to become accustomed to new things including new people and new pets.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Nebelung, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Nebelung or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Nebelung, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Nebelung cats cost between $600-$1,200.
Nebelung cats tend to be small in size. A fully grown Nebelung cat might weigh between 7-15 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 9"- 13" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Nebelung is 11-18 years.
Nebelung are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
I am saying goodbye to my Sammy today. He is the one and only Nebelung I’ve known, and out of all the many kitties I’ve been blessed with in my long life, he has been one of the, if not the, most stellar. He is the Alpha of all my kitties.  He is respected as such by my entire pride, it’s obvious. With a glance, he corrects a young foolish one. With a nudge, he directs another. Nobody ever dares to squabble with him. I think the best word for him is “Regal”. So loyal.  So faithful. So silky and soft. His eyes are beautiful and mesmerizing. I don’t know how I will make it through this day.
Hope you aren’t too sad now. I can’t imagine not being with either of my cats.
I just got a nebelung female she is four years old they are very gourgous cats everwere I go people ask me what’ is she I tell them a nebelung and that there rare cats.  I got a cat backpack that I take her in.
So I had what I believed to be a cat named Layla that had ALL of the Nebelung traits and temperaments. She had long silky grey-blue double coated fur with a neck ruff, pantaloons and big fluffy tail, big almond green eyes, wedge face, tall pointed ears with fluff inside and on the tips and tufts between her toes. The only thing that didn’t match was her white bib, toes and magnificent white moustache! She was the sweetest cat I’ve ever owned. She was gentle, she never ever hissed or growled, and she was stuck to me like a shadow. She followed me everywhere and DEMANDED to be allowed on my lap or stretched out with her whole body touching mine. She’d put her little paw on my leg too. She would talk to you with different meows and I swear you knew exactly what she was saying! She was so unbelievably intelligent, and learned to sit and stay on command. I don’t know her history as she was a rescue and I never bothered to do a genetic test. She was the best cat I have ever owned, and the 11 years I had with her were amazing. She was a senior cat when I got her and she lived to be almost 20. She did have IBD (we called her Turdbutt because she’d get poo in her pantaloons sometimes – eventually she only answered to Turd, lol). She needed expensive prescription food and many pills, some of which you could get her to shake and reward her with like a treat.  She died at the beginning of June due to kidney failure. I know she wasn’t a purebred and I can only speculate based on the characteristics of registered Nebelungs, but we live in Denver where the breed originated. Whatever she was I don’t think she was a cat at all but the most wonderful old soul in a fur body, and I miss her every day.
You are blessed to have her. Jennifer, I love your   description of her as a wonderful old soul in a fur body.  I would describe my Sammy as a magnificent soul trapped in a fur suit and blessing me with his life. What a dear, sweet Sammy.  He should have been named Sir Samuel the Greatest. I don’t know how I will survive this day of saying goodbye to him.
My cat’s name is Loki. And true to his name is is mischievous. He’s a bit different in his size from the average ones you have described. He’s almost 20″ long with shorter legs and he weighs in at 22lbs. His coat is identical to the description made in the article but we have him groomed 4 times a year cause I think he hates his fur. He’s my buddy and I wouldn’t have it any other way.
We got our little girl Shadow along with a sister Moki at 5 months old from a foster agency. They are 2 1/2 years old now, and wonderful cats — Shadow fits the Nebelung description in appearance and behavior. Her sibling looks and acts more like a tiger cat (even has the “M” marking on her forehead, tiger striped legs, big strong-willed girl) so we wonder if these litter mates have the same mom but different fathers, which does happen sometimes with cats. Shadow curls up every night on my right shoulder as we fall asleep. She loves the backyard but doesn’t wander (Moki goes all over the neighborhood), and indoors she is never far away from me unless we have visitors, and then she just disappears until the guests leave (hence the name Shadow). No digestive problems except for the occasional hairball. We’ve had a lot of cats over the years, and my husband and I agree that we’ve never encountered one quite like her. Bright, observant, playful, shy but not meek, very loyal to her sister, and keeps the mouse population to a minimum. I don’t care if she is or isn’t purebred, she’s a wonderful little girl cat. Didn’t know about Nebelungs until just a few weeks ago when someone told me they had one – checking the website, it’s clear she has a lot of Nebelung in her, from mom or dad (or both?).
I’m not sure why cat seem to be such “throw away” animals to some people. My son adopted a nuberlung from someone who was just going to leave this cat on the street because it wasn’t compatible with their lifestyle anymore. His name is Fuful and he’s a great cat. He gets along fine with my son’s two hundred pound Alaskan Malamutes and has become a great companion and addition to his home.
I give my cats spring water.  The other water in the house goes through a water softener.  One cat had a UTD and once I got it cleared up and only spring water no problem.
i have a 2yr old nebelung who is both the driving force of my life and the reason i have anxiety (only partially joking
her name is river and she’s an absolute demon, specializing in the fields of terror and giving people heart attacks
My nebelung’s name is Bella. He’s (yes, he’s a boy, we unfortunately didn’t notice until it was too late, but he already answered to the name, so now we nicknamed him things like Mr. B and Beazer) fiercely loyal and surprisingly an outdoor cat. We got him from a neighbor who was selling the litter and he was the runt that no one wanted. We lucked out quite a bit because we had no idea he was rare. We thought he was a Russian Blue or a Norwegian Forest Cat before we figured it out. He’s very well behaved with no accidents and super gentle. Even when my toddler brother snipped his ears with scissors (much to our horror). He’s very much a family cat. Our B is now 14 years old and still incredibly spry and BIG. He’s an amazing cat. If I were to own a cat in the future, I would want it to be another nebelung. They are AMAZING!!!
A beautiful Nebelung girl adopted me when I visited a local L.A. shelter just a week ago.  I had been looking at her on the website, and hoped she would choose me.  The shelter folks had her listed as a Russian Blue, but I wondered about the slightly longer coat, so I did some research online.  They didn’t even know what they had!  It took a few days to bond, and today she had her first vet visit.  She was remarkably well behaved considering all she’s been through.  The former human said she pooped outside the box.  Hmmm, maybe that’s what you do if you have to share and you don’t know how to flush the toilet!  She’s been perfect with me.  Her growling and hissing has gradually lessened as we learn to respect boundaries.  Don’t touch my underbelly too long human!  I love Miss Dinah Blue! XO
Sounds like you two are off to a wonderful start! Congratulations.
Yeah don’t rub the belly! It’s a trap!
One of my neighbors “adopted” a Nebelung and his two cat friends (other breeds) a few years ago when they were kittens.  I named the Nebelung Grisgris (Greygrey in English) and he is totally loyal to his two cat friends; not to forget that he is totally adorable.
My Nebelung  She is my everything. Her name is Optimus Feline, a.k.a. Miss Opie for short.  I have not had a cat like her and I’ve grown up with them and have had cats my whole life.  Don’t get me wrong, every cat has a personality and unique self.  However, there’s just something about my Nebelung. She has been incredibly devoted to me, intuitively knows when I’m upset and always comforts me.  We bonded the moment we met at a humane society in Nashua, NH.  I remember begging my (ex) boyfriend to let me get this beautiful kitty because in my soul I knew I needed her with me.  She is so kind and loving, playful and cute.  She’s silky with silver tipped, long, blue fur.  She loves my family, but is even more loyal to me.  She follows me around the house, snuggles and sleeps with me.  My heart melts when she gives me eye kisses and headbutts.  Her pantaloons are quite possibly my favorite!  She’s full of personality and she even alerted us in the middle of the night when someone was breaking into our vehicles!!
I only recently found out what her breed was – I became frustrated when I was unable to find any merchandise (i.e. stuffed animal, or printed t-shirt) that resembles my kitty in any way. So I followed the Google search rabbit hole, which eventually brought me to information about Nebelung’s.  When I saw the pictures of this breed on the internet I was blown away at how my pretty kitty looked identical to them!  I’m very happy I discovered all this information!
I don’t know how I got so fortunate in this lifetime.  I will ALWAYS have a significant place in my heart for Miss Opie, my Optimus Feline.
A very sweet story. Thank you for sharing.
We love our Waldo so much.  We named him that cause you can’t see him at night and he blends with our furniture.  He loves to play with our calico and they run like crazy through the house. He is a wonderful smuggler and we all love him so much.
https://photos.app.goo.gl/VhPSESmLKxvBSdas9 here is our little nebelung his name is Thumper unfortunatly we cant keep him because it turns out the landlord wont allow it. Where would be the best place to find the perfect family for thumper do you think
I adopted Walter as a 12 week old kitten from a foster home. At the time I feared his tail was going to be a little … thin … and his coat would be short. Before long, the fur on his tail was growing (and growing), and he was growing out the softest most luxurious coat I’ve ever seen on a cat.  Walter’s first birthday is next month.  I’ve loved and believe I’ve been loved by each and every cat who has adopted me — Duchess, Sam, Bob, Sam II, and now Walter — and Walter is different, beyond description. Physically, he’s beautiful – silver tipped medium long dark gray fur, emerald green eyes, a true ruff, pantaloons that are so precise they look like they’ve been trimmed that way, a black nose and black whiskers, a magnificent plumed tail, and he’s so athletic!  He follows me everywhere, likes to crawl up into my shoulder and then have me hold him like a baby.  When he relaxes in that position, he stretches his front paws over his head and stretches his back paws out full length – and becomes a looong cat with an exposed belly.  The level of trust in me that he communicates is overwhelming in all my experience with cats.  He is smart and loves to play – I don’t know how he manages to be graceful and goofy at the same time, but he does.  When I give in to the urge to take a nap in my chair, Walter will curl up in my lap and sleep there for an hour, quietly purring the whole time. He loves to be brushed – another moment of what seems to be pure joy for him.  It may sound like I’m a little over the top about my Nebelung – but Walter is unlike any cat who has ever lived with me  or that I’ve ever seen.
Walter sounds wonderful, Connie! It sounds like he really trusts you and the two of you have a wonderful bond.
Hi! 3 weeks ago I found a gorgeous kitten hiding in my shed, she is gray with long hair and soooo extremely sweet. She had horrible smelling urine so I took her to the vet and it was determined she was around 5 weeks old and had a UTI. She has been on antibiotics and doing really well! I believe she may be Nebelung as she has a thick gray coat and looks very similar to all the photos I’ve researched. We are attempting to transition from wet food to dry kibble, it’s not going well, any advice?
Hi Crystal, that’s a great question, but I wonder why you want to transition to dry food at all! Wet food is nutritionally superior in multiple ways, and you can learn about that here. I would keep feeding her that wet food, personally. You’re fortunate to not have a kibble addict!
We got our boy at an SPCA foster home. He was 3 months old and from a wild cat colony.  He was everything Negelung. Anyone who saw the breed photos thought it was him..Interestingly, his coat changed length with our Canadian seasons. His sister was a diffuse tortie. Unfortunately, he died from heart complications just as the breed is known for. He was a joy. He was only 9 when he passed. We miss him.
We lucked out and got a Nebelung at the humane society after it was abandoned in a dumpster as a kitten …. One man/woman’s trash is another man/woman’s treasure. He’s been pure gold. All the characteristics and such a great playful personality I started a TilTok channel on him @cheipisworld … he can get aggressive while playing but being a kitten some of it is teething. Overall best cat ever ranking.
Hi,
About ten years ago I fell in love with a young grey cat in a shelter.  Apparently, she was found lost, dirty and running the streets.  I brought this grey bundle home with me.  It wasn’t until a month ago that I even knew this breed existed. I texted pictures of Nebelung cats to my daughters and they all thought they were photos of Eowyn.  Her personality matches the Nebelung perfectly.  Whether she is or not, she is a constant joy in my life.  Wish I could include a picture of this beautiful girl.
Pamela
We adopted a ‘grey’ kitten from a foster cat family that is mostly Nebulung, with a white chest blaze and four white legs/paws. ‘Dibs’ is also a ‘wobbly cat’ with cerabellar hypoplasia. He flops and wobbles, with his big bushy tail flailing behind him. We laugh at his antics, and feel blessed to provide him a loving home.
This makes me so excited!! We found our boy Pepper last year. He was very young, on the brink of death, and appeared to be dumped. We had no idea what his breed was, but now he’s big and beautiful. I stumbled upon this article, and it made me look more into it and so some research and got some second opinions and the photos in this article are identical to my boy. I wish I could post a photo. Thank you so much for solving this mystery for is
Hi Lillian, that’s great! Just remember that it’s unlikely that Pepper is actually a Nebelung—you can’t consider a cat to be part of any breed unless they have the appropriate papers, and, especially compared to dog breeds, purebred cats are rare in general. I would describe him as a grey domestic longhair who has a lot of Nebelung-like traits. Thanks for stopping by!
Thank you for the reply! Fortunately, they have that kind of testing for felines (I’m obsessed with this stuff lol!). because we only wanted to know what he was, I’m not seeking documentation, which I probably wouldn’t have been able to get anyway . I was just excited to find this article because it started our pursuit to find out what he is. Again, thank you! Very informative!
People are coming here to read this article because they want to know more about their cat. Nobody cares about the particular standards of the breed or whether or not their cat is a pure bred ‘registered’ Nebelung. You don’t have to go reminding everyone, or making remarks like “just remember it’s unlikely that pepper is actually a Nebelung”, nobody f*cking asked you, Karen. Do you really waste your days replying to peoples comments correcting them by telling them they don’t know sh*t about their cat? Do you go to bed feeling accomplished? I hope you are surrounded nightly by all your highly pedigreed creatures with your stacks of paperwork proving their breed legitimacy. I hope you’re living the dream.
Samantha, thanks for the feedback. It’s part of my job here at All About Cats to reply to comments and provide information, and I thought people would appreciate knowing that it’s very unlikely that a cat without a pedigree is purebred. As someone who’s spent years researching cats and trying to share factual information, my commitment has been solely to facts—not any elitist agenda. However, I can see that, especially when we’re talking about cat breeds, this comes across as condescending. Condescension was never my intention or an approach that represents the values of All About Cats. I’ll change my approach in the future. Thanks again, and I hope you have a good day ahead.
A cat is the breed it is you don’t need no papers saying so wth you’re basically saying it’s not any breed just because there’s no paperwork on it, what bs
Thank you Mallory. I’m trying to manage one day at a time. I lost my Mom and three cats at Xmas several years ago so it’s a particularly hard time of year for me. I didn’t even put up my lights this year. My cats are my only family and I can’t meet with friends because of Covid. Very depressing.
I adopted my 8-year old Nebelung  3 years ago from a no kill cat shelter.  Most people seem to dump their sick cats at shelters so the unsuspecting new owner gets stuck with the health issues.  Lagerfeld (Lenny) stopped eating & drinking & started to hide.  As well as being dehydrated, the vet listed a myriad of health issues including early kidney disease as well as problems with his liver and gall bladder.  He also suspects IBS or IBD and said that Lenny had bad teeth.  He performed an ultrasound without my permission to diagnose some of the issues. Lenny has had severe diarrhea for almost 2 weeks and the 3 types of meds he’s on aren’t helping.  I’m a senior so I don’t have a lot of money to cover the huge vet bills.  I just had to have my Bombay put down 2 weeks ago due to kidney failure & my Selkirk Rex the month before.  My remaining cat is stressed from losing all his best buds.
Yikes, all of that does sound very stressful, Carol. I can’t suggest any particular course of action—I’d just advise minimizing your own stress as much as possible. Hope everything turns out alright for Lenny. – Mallory
We have a Nebelung.
He was at a kill shelter we volunteered.
He was sick but we took him home and we didn’t know he was pedigreed until our pet sitter said google long haired gray cat and the picture of the Nebelung came up.
We think he was a breeder and got sick and was thrown away.
One clue was when he would lay on newspapers.
He also allows you to hold him like they do in shows.
Loves to be groomed and is just gorgeous.
Has the pantaloons too.
Silky gray fur with a ruff around his neck and very loving.
We named him Cosmo from the movie Moonstruck.
The American Cat Fanciers Association (ACFA) and The international Cat Association (TICA) help regulate the cat breeder industry. Even still, potential buyers need to do their due diligence. Reputable breeders will belong to either of these clubs or other ones around the world.
Breeders can also be fraud by advertising with a sense of urgency an/or asking for large amounts of cash upfront.
Even if I wanted a Nebelung, currently I cannot find any reputable breeders for Nebelungs.
Yes, so it would indeed be difficult and expensive to get an actual Nebelung. I read about the importance of going to a Nebelung breeder not a general one. I have no interest. I tend to get rescues or cats given to me. My Persian kitty was indeed a purebred and I got her from a friend but I wasn’t going to go out of my way to find papers to prove it. I adopted a Siamese named Cookie who was very much a Siamese who likely was abandoned because the so-called pet parents didn’t bother to do the research to look more deeply into this breed and what to expect. I know a family who has a bengal cat who was a rescue but no doubt in my mind she is a pure bengal based on appearance alone and by getting to know her as a pet sitter.
Vita may even be not meet the standards of a Nebelung based on neck length (not really a long neck) and leg length. Hard to tell. Her eyes are an emerald green. Her ears are far apart but not unusually large in proportion to her head. She has the fixed smile, plumed tail, and tufts in between her toes and ears. Really soft delicate coat. I brush her almost daily but I don’t need to. Her underside coat is supposed to matt easily (as in Nebelungs).
Yes, I know they have to be registered. I have no interest in doing that. It’s really a matter of knowing more about my cat, and why she behaves the way she does.and more about her preferences. This whole process started by accident. I have had her for 13 years without knowing anything about her roots.
I found out about Russian Blue cats also by accident, by watching a video. I then watched several more videos and then in one of those videos they talked about “a Russian Blue with medium length coat is actually called a Nebelung.”
Even if she is only partly Nebelung I don’t care. Knowing about this breed and the traits she has that match her to a T is very fascinating to me.
There are a lot of these grey cats with white points, adorable green eyes and fixed smiles,  and it’s quite possible there are many of these in North America by now, while the Nebelung remains rare. Since 1986, a lot of variations can happen.
Lisa, it does sound like your kitty is a Nebelung, regardless of whether or not she’s registered. It’s still the breed of the cat. 😉
By Mallory’s condescending comment that a cat is only a breed if it is registered, would that mean that if I had an actual tiger, it wouldn’t be an tiger unless it was registered? The difference is saying you a have a nebelung cat or if you have a registered nebelung cat. But that’s just my opinion…and maybe the opinion of several others.
What about the whiskers? My cat Vita has long whiskers.
My cat Vita is a Nebelung but could also be a mix! All the personality of a Russian blue but with medium hair length, and she has white points on her as well. Can Nebelungs have white points on them?  She has such an adorable face with green “to die for” eyes and a permanent smile. Sweet docile personality, almost as talkative as a Siamese, but can also be very quiet. Love her to pieces!
I went down this rabbit hole of discovering her roots and only recently discovered she has Russian Blue roots, but didn’t know about the nebelung until last night after watching a video.
Hi Lisa! Thanks for commenting. So, no cat can be considered a purebred or a purebred mix unless they are registered. I’m not sure how you found out about Vita’s Russian Blue roots, but if you know for certain that one of her ancestors was a Russian Blue, that’s the most you can safely claim about her breed. Other than that, it’s all fun and guesses. White points are not part of the Nebelung breed standard, which describes an even, clear medium blue coat.
I have two boys from the same litter Sammy and Sasha. Both are full grown males that exhibit all the traits of a traditional Nebelung especially their fondness to one person and their shyness to strangers. They are very curious and enjoy watching guests from the top of our stairs. Once they come around a few times (meaning 2-4 days or more) they feel more trusting and meow won’t leave the guests alone as they need their attention.
My cat Loki has white markings on his paws, belly, and neck but otherwise matches the description of a Nebelung. Could he be Nebelung or a mix?
Hi Ashley, unfortunately, we have no way of knowing if your cat is related to a Nebelung, but this is a rare pedigree and in part defined by a solid blue coloration (no white). You can safely say that Loki “looks like a Nebelung”, but he sounds like a moggie/domestic longhair to me.
My nebelung (Dio) is the best cat in the world. His soft hair helps my anxiety. He is an a*shole though. Super loyal. Only downside is he has a urinary problem and can only have prescription food. not sure if it goes with the breed or just male cats in general.
Hi Ashley, thank you for telling us about Dio! He sounds lovely.
Hi Ashley. I just took my cat Bob, who looks exactly like nebelungs, to the vet due to blood in his urine. They said it is probably a stress response. I left for a week with my boyfriend Ive been living with for his whole life, so I promise I didn’t torment him. They said it should return to normal but it hasn’t and it had been two weeks. I was doing a little research and saw your post. I was wondering if Dio has the same issue. Thanks!
Such a,m wonderful, beautiful and fun breed.  Margie was a rescue. Shes very vocal and, once comfortable, gets into the mix of a crowd.
I’m lucjyvto have found her.
My cat has the same urinary issue.  My vet recommended staying away from food that had seafood in it and she has been fine ever since I switched.
My cat his name Bey..also gpt same issue..but after him took urin pill that i bough at pet shop now he be ok..its bcoz of normal cat food its too much of salt..we muat change to dried food no added colour or salt
Mine too his name is Smokey and he is the best cat I’ve ever had! He has never ever peed or pooed in my house, he played fetch when he was younger he loves to go for walks and walks next to me without a leash,  he listens he’s respectful and so soft and just an all around beautiful cat! I was lucky got em on craigslist 10 years ago had no idea he was a very rare cat!
Hi Ashley, My Nebelung, Gio (I’m not kidding), is also the best and an a-hold. He is super picky about his food and throws it up when he tries to eat his brother’s dry grocery store food. He has recently stopped using any of his three litter boxes. I am glad that you mentioned it. I will send his vet a message, I might need him checked.
--------------------------------------------------
The Nebelung is a pedigree breed of domestic cat. Nebelungs have long bodies, wide-set green eyes, long and dense fur, and mild dispositions.[1] The cat is related to the Russian Blue, but with longer, silkier hair, and is in fact sometimes called the Long-haired Russian Blue.[2][3][1]
The American foundation of this cat breed was laid by the cats Siegfried (1984) and Brunhilde (1985). Cora Cobb, the owner of Siegfried and Brunhilde, was very impressed by the beauty of her blue-grey cats. Siegfried and Brunhilde looked like a Russian Blue but with a semi-long coat. To find out if it was possible to start a new breed with these cats, Cora got in touch with the geneticist of the American Cat Association. This geneticist, Solveig Pfleuger, said that the breed was best defined as semi-long haired Russian Blue. Supported by Pfleuger, Cobb wrote the breeding standard according to the Russian Blue, but with a difference: its coat length.
Russian Blue breeders from The International Cat Association (TICA), however, objected to this, and the breed standard was thus revised to describe a unique breed, resembling blue-grey cats that had been imported from Russia in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
TICA was the first association to recognize the Nebelung and provides the breed standard. The goal of the Nebelung breeding program is to produce a blue cat with the same type as those early Russian imports and to combine this type with a thick shimmering coat of medium length. The body and tail are long, the ears large in proportion to the head, and the eyes range in color from yellowish green to green. Size is medium and the body well-muscled. The coat is medium long on the body and longer on the tail, with lighter colored guard hairs. The overall appearance is long, sturdy and well muscled. The name Nebelung is derived from the German translation for "creature of the mist" (see Nibelung).
The Nebelung is a rather new breed, with breeders in America, Canada, Russia, and Europe. In addition to TICA, the Nebelung is recognized by the American Cat Fanciers Association (ACFA),[4] the World Cat Federation (WCF),[5] Livre Officiel des Origines Félines (LOOF),[6] Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF),[7] and independent cat associations in the Netherlands, Belgium, and Germany. The breed's availability is still rather limited.
Nebelung cats are characterized by a long, graceful neck and body, long legs, long or medium coat, and long tail. Slightly oval eyes are a vivid green color, or sometimes a yellow-green. Large, pointed ears sit atop a modified wedge-shaped head that is more pointed than rounded. The overall appearance is of a long, sturdy, well-muscled cat. The soft double coat feels fine and silky; it is gray in color and is tipped with silver. Males and, to a lesser extent, females have a ruff around the neck. The fur on the tail is longer than that on the body. Tufts of fur are found behind the ears and in between the toes, and the hind legs sport pantaloons. The adult coat reaches its full development when the cat is approximately two years old. The life span of a Nebelung is 16+ years. A Nebelung weighs between 3.5 kg (7.11 lbs) for females and 6.5 kg (14.5 lbs) for sterilized males.
Nebelung cats are lively, playful, affectionate, good-natured, and intelligent. The cat's mild-mannered state and personality may not always reflect the relatively high level of intelligence often found in the breed. In spite of the fact that it is an active cat, it can live very well indoors. Nebelungs prefer their own families and often keep a distance from strangers. They tend to bond with a select few humans and stay loving and devoted throughout their lives. It is, however, a cat that gladly accepts company of its people or of another cat. Nebelungs are very good communicators and will remind their owners of problems. This happens often since Nebelungs can be very picky about things such as litter cleanliness and food type.
Many owners of Nebelung cats say that they can act more like dogs at times, being extremely loyal to their owner and family. At times a Nebelung may choose or bond with a specific person within a family group more so than others. They will still enjoy the company of others within the social group but will tend to spend most of their time with said chosen person. They are also known for being easily leash trained with use of a proper harness. It enjoys sitting in a lap and being petted, and will follow its favorite person devotedly from room to room. The breed is also very playful and is known to learn to fetch and retrieve toys when thrown. This is a cat that likes routine, and may require a little time to adjust to changes in the household. Early socialization can help it become more adaptable.
The Nebelung was featured on the Animal Planet show Cats 101.[8]
The Nebelung is one of the animals which can be given as a Patronus in answer to the user's personality test on Pottermore.[9]
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Therese Elaine, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 29, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Nebelung is a beautiful cat whose coat is unique in texture and looks. The Nebelung originated in the US and is a recent addition to the cat fancy; they were first bred in the 1980s and gifted the name “Nebelung” due to their shining, silver-gray fur. Nebelung roughly translates to “creature of the mist,” and these loving cats resemble a stocky, semi-longhaired Russian Blue.
They are interesting and enigmatic cats that are still rare, so read on to discover if a shining Nebelung would fit into your home.
Height:
9–13 inches
Weight:
7–15 pounds
Lifespan:
15–18 years
Colors:
Blue with silver tips
Suitable for:
Those who are home often, families with respectful children, those who want a trainable cat
Temperament:
Loving, mild-mannered, shy, intelligent, affectionate
The Nebelung is a breed like no other. They are affectionate and kind cats who love to follow their owners around the home, hovering around them no matter where they are. They’re often “shoulder cats” that love to lounge across their owner’s shoulders and watch the world go by!
The Nebelung is highly trainable and capable of learning tricks, such as sitting and giving paws; owners often describe them as “dog-like” in their devotion and personality. They made such an impression on their initial breeders that they were immediately entered into shows and became a breed of their own in the 1980s, distinct from their similar cousins, the Russian Blues.


A post shared by Cory Reynolds (@iamthecatman)

Nebelung kittens are difficult to find in the US since they’re still a relatively unknown breed. Because the Nebelung is not recognized by the CFA (Cat Fanciers Association), finding a breeder of Nebelung kittens in the US is tricky. You can potentially import one of these beautiful cats from Europe or the UK, but the Nebelung cat price for one kitten is around $1,200 without import fees. You might be able to find a Nebelung to rescue from shelters or ex-show cats, but that is likely very unlikely.
Nebelung kittens are full of mischief, just like all kittens are, but they look decidedly different from their adult counterparts. Nebelungs can take two years or more to get their full, luscious coats completely grown in (especially for males), so Nebelung kittens look more like particularly scruffy Russian Blues until that time. They’re often gangly and look like deer caught in headlights due to their big eyes and long bodies!

Nebelungs are intelligent cats that can be trained to sit, stay, fetch, and even shake, but they need to do it on their terms! Nebelungs want to be close to their owners at all times. They are Velcro cats by nature, but they don’t make themselves obtrusive.
Typically, a Nebelung will hover around their owners or follow them from room to room rather than constantly jumping on them for attention! They are unapologetically affectionate and loving and very gentle with their owners. They’re commonly compared to dogs because of their loyal nature.
However, Nebelungs aren’t as open to strangers, and they’ll often stay true to their name and disappear “into the mist” whenever a new face enters the home. They can be skittish if not properly socialized, though they’re unlikely to be aggressive. The Nebelung doesn’t do well in hectic surroundings and needs a calm environment to flourish. It takes time to earn a Nebelung’s trust.
But, once earned, they will love you for life. However, this usually only applies to a select group of people, and Nebelungs can get very upset when not around their favorite people.
Nebelungs are excellent cats for families with older children who want a devoted and loving playmate. While young children can sometimes be too much for the gentle and mild-mannered Nebelung, older children who can participate in their care and understand their need for calm will be followed around, groomed, and will always have a friend to talk to (who often talks back!).
Nebelungs can get anxious if left alone for long periods, so they do best in families with at least one person at home for most of the day.
Nebelungs can get along with other pets in the home if they are well-socialized and exposed to dogs, cats, and small animals as kittens. Nebelungs can sometimes get nervous, so making sure they’re comfortable with other pets early in life will help them cope. They are laid back in nature and often get along well with other cats or cat-savvy dogs.
However, they’re mild-mannered and don’t deal with conflict well.

Nebelungs need care and attention just like other breeds, with a focus on keeping them calm and happy. They have long lifespans and a very affectionate nature, so be prepared to be followed by a gray shadow if you adopt a Nebelung into your family!
Nebelungs are obligate carnivores like all cats, so they need a high-quality, high-protein diet of both wet and dry food. Nebelungs are a healthy breed but can suffer from the same health problems as all cats, including kidney and bladder problems. Feeding wet or canned food can help your Nebelung take in more water and support their kidneys and urinary system.
Some Nebelungs can be fussy, so you might have to cycle through a few types of food until they settle on one they like! In any case, always ensure your Nebelung has fresh water available.
Nebelungs aren’t an especially active breed, so having toys around the home for them to play with during brief daily play sessions is usually more than enough exercise. Making sure you play with your cat and spend quality time with them is important, and exercise and bonding will help them burn off excess energy and help them feel calm.
Giving the Nebelung toys that you can rotate week to week can keep them engaged, and exercise releases endorphins and other “happy” hormones to keep them content.
Nebelungs are very trainable cats. Training a Nebelung is usually easy due to their intelligence and affection, but you’ll need to keep their attention! Most love to spend time with their owners and are happy to please them, but keeping training sessions short and completing one goal at a time (such as learning to sit) can ensure that training sessions are successful.
Nebelungs can also be clicker trained, and they respond best to training from people they know in a calm environment (without strangers present).
Despite their dense coats, the Nebelung has silky fur that doesn’t need excessive grooming. Because of the fine, silver undercoat, they can sometimes get matted under their armpits and between their hind legs; brushing these areas once a week is usually enough to keep them looking good and tangle-free. During the colder months, many Nebelungs gain ruff and pantaloons (extra-long fur around their necks and back legs).
These areas need brushing out when shedding in the warmer months, but Nebelungs are generally very good at keeping themselves well-groomed. Older cats may need a sanitary clip or bath if they have trouble grooming themselves, but the Nebelung isn’t a breed that often needs clipping. Nail clips and teeth brushing from an early age are essential to keep the Nebelung comfortable and prevent overgrown nails and dental problems.
The Nebelung is a pedigree cat, yet they don’t suffer from genetically inherited health problems like many other purebreds. They also don’t suffer from diseases any more than a cross-bred cat would, making them one of the healthiest (and longest-lived) pedigree breeds around! Nebelungs are often healthy and strong but can still suffer from the same problems all cats are prone to.
Keeping your Nebelung fit and trim is important, as they have shorter legs and long bodies, which can mean any excess weight sits on them heavily.

Male Nebelungs are often bigger than females and have more stern-looking faces. Female Nebelungs are smaller and more delicate, while the males can grow heavier and broader in the nose and shoulders. Both male and female Nebelungs can grow a ruff, but males tend to develop a more pronounced one.
If male Nebelungs are not neutered, they can grow chubby cheeks, thanks to the extra testosterone.

The first two cats bred together to make this stunning breed (Seigfried and Brunhilde) have prominent German names, and the Nebelung breed may have been named after the German epic poem “Nibelungenlied” (the song of the Nibelungs). This poem, written in the Middle Ages, involves the love lives of Seigfried and Brunhilde.
When Nebelung kittens are born, they often have bright blue eyes. These will slowly change over the first few months of their lives, going from blue to bright green. All Nebelungs have green eyes, and no other color is allowed for cat shows according to the breed standard.
Anyone who owns a Nebelung can attest to their dog-like personalities, which also extends to being leash trained! Nebelungs should be slowly exposed to a harness (never a collar and leash) before attempting to take them outside, and a custom harness is best to prevent escapes.

Nebelungs are truly magical cats, with their mystical, silver-tipped coats and loving and devoted personalities. They are affectionate cats who love being around their owners but aren’t constantly vying for their attention. Most Nebelungs are healthy and content to be home with their immediate family, but they often fear strangers.
They are rare and not easy to adopt, but it’s worth trying to find one if you want a friendly and adoring feline companion.
See also:
Featured Image Credit: Therese Elaine, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Beth is a mom to two toddlers: one with four legs, one with two. Beth has years of practical experience as a veterinary care assistant, working in both the operating room and in consult, expanding her knowledge to gain certification in her favorite subject: feline behavior and welfare! When she's not writing about her favorite topics (cats and creature comforts), she's looking after her two-year-old daughter and her mischievous eight-year-old Nebelung, Kiba. When she gets a moment's respite, Beth loves to delve into fiction books. Horror is her favorite genre, with fantasy and rich history being her second go-to's.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The highly intelligent Nebelungs are devoted to their families, but are often shy with strangers and young children. Kittens need time to adjust to their new home and should be allowed to advance at their own pace. As they settle in, their playful personality will emerge and they will soon be following family members from room to room. They are medium-sized cats that require regular combing to prevent tangles and mats. Find out more about this breed and if the Nebelung is right for you and your family.
Playful
medium-sized cat
11 - 16+ years.
Blue with silver tips
Blue with silver tips


The Nebelung is a new and relatively rare breed that are close relatives of the short-haired Russian Blue. They do not like change and do best in a quiet, stable environment. Known for being gentle and mild-mannered, they are playful and very affectionate with their immediate family members. Although they are loving and loyal with those they know, they can be reserved, and sometimes even aloof, with strangers. It is not unusual for them to hide when people are visiting the house.
Although they love receiving cuddles and affection from their family, they are not a particularly needy cat. They can be left home alone without incidence, making them well-suited to apartment living.
The goal of Nebelung breeding program is to produce a blue cat with the same type as those imported from Russia in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries and to combine this type with a thick shimmering coat of medium length. The body and tail are long, the ears large in proportion to the head and the eyes range in color from yellowish green to green. Size is medium and the body well-muscled. The coat is medium long on the body, longer on the tail, with lighter colored guard hairs. The overall appearance is long, sturdy and well muscled.
Despite their gentle, quiet, somewhat shy nature, Nebelungs love to play. They are especially fond of retrieving, jumping, and climbing to high places where they can study people and situations before making up their mind about whether they want to get involved.
Nebelungs love to be with their families, but are also capable of entertaining themselves during the day. They are active, affectionate, good-natured cats that prefer the company of their own family to that of visiting strangers.
Kittens need time to adjust to their new home and should be allowed to make their own advances to their new family. Once settled, the playful Nebelung will becoming a loving, cuddling companion that will follow his owners from room to room to remain in their company.
Want to connect with fellow cat lovers and those who love the same breed as you?TICA is a large resource made up of smaller regions and clubs around the world.Click here to find a club near you and contact information for your regional director and website.
Wherever you are, you’re in TICA’s world!®
The TICA website is the only place where you can find TICA member breeders who have signed the TICA Code of Ethics.
Nebelungs were featured on the Animal Planet show Cats 101.
The character Hairball in the movie Pound Puppies and the Legend of Big Paw was depicted by a Nebelung voiced by Frank Welker.
The movie Garden State, featured a Nebelung.
The name Nebelung is derived from the German word Nebel, meaning fog or mist, a reference to the cat’s flowing shimmering silvery-blue coat.
Evoking visions of creatures rising from the mists, the Nebelung is a longhaired cat with a foreign body, wide-set green eyes and a silky blue coat frosted with silver draping the body. The name Nebelung is derived from the German word for mist or fog, Nebel, and a medieval Germanic saga the Nibelungenlied and is intended to represent the cat’s distinctive silky blue coat. This relatively new and rare breed is intended to resemble an ideal vision of early nineteenth century longhairs that may have had their origins in Russia.
Cora Cobb (Nebelheim) developed the Nebelung breed and attained its recognition in TICA. The first registered Nebelungs were Siegfried, born in 1984, and named for the murdered dragon slayer in the epic Germanic poem, and Brunhilde, born in 1985, and named for the Icelandic queen in the same poem. Siegfried’s mother was a black domestic shorthair named Elsa belonging to Cora’s son, Karl, and Siegfried’s father was a longhair resembling a black Angora. Siegfried was the only blue longhair kitten-a beautiful, large kitten with long legs, long tail and a medium length coat. Five months later a second litter was born with another longhaired blue but this time it was a female that Cora named Brunhilde. Her coat was longer and lighter than Siegfried’s. These two cats were the foundation of the new breed. Siegfried and Bruhilde had their first litter in 1986 and shortly afterwards, in 1987, with the help of Dr. Solveig Pflueger, Cora applied to TICA for New Breed status (NBC). The Russian Blue was designated as an outcross for the new breed and it continued to allow the addition of foundation cats as an important way of developing the gene pool. The new breed needed a unique standard and one was developed based on an interpretation of early 19th century cats imported to England. The late 1980s saw the beginnings of the cat fancy in Eastern Europe and a redevelopment of the Russian Blue created an influx of foundation cats to that breed. Some of these new foundation Russian Blues carried the longhair gene and provided a valuable new source of bloodlines to help develop the Nebelung breed. TICA recognized the Nebelung for championship competition in 1997.
Devoted to their owners and family members, the highly intelligent Nebelungs can be shy with strangers and young children. Kittens need time to adjust to their new home and should be allowed to make their own advances to their new family. As the new family member settles in, the playful Nebelung will becoming a loving companion cuddling into a lat for petting and often following its owners from room to room to remain in their company. They are active, affectionate, good-natured cats that prefer the company of their own family to that of visiting strangers.
A medium-sized cat, the Nebelung is a sturdy, well-muscled cat with a long body draped with a silky medium-length blue coat shimmering with silver at the tips. Nebelungs resemble the type of longhaired cats imported from Russia in the late nineteenth and early 20th centuries. The tail is long with a full thick plume gracefully balancing the long body. The ears are large in proportion to the head and continue the elegant lines of the head. They have wide-set eyes that impart a look of intelligence to the face and range in color from yellowish green to green. The coat is medium in length but dense so regular combing is a must to prevent tangles and mats. The silver tips to the ends of the hair give the cat’s silky-soft coat a luminous, misty aura that adds to its allure and the mystery associated with a mythical creature rising from the mists.
Nebelung’s are considered overall a healthy, but still relatively new breed. They are also known for their longevity, with it not being uncommon for them to reach eighteen years of age.
Comb your Nebelung’s coat regularly to ensure that it does not become matted or tangled. This will also remove dead hair and distribute skin oils.
Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check their ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
As with all cats, brush their teeth weekly to prevent periodontal disease and trim their nails every couple of weeks.
Nebelung are sometimes known for being fussy about their food, but be careful, once they find something they like, they can easily become overweight.
As with all cats, it is important to give your cat fresh, clean water daily. Fresh, clean water is best, so cats don’t hesitate to drink. If you worry about your cat drinking enough water each day, here’s a tip from some cat behaviorists: place the water bowl at least three feet away from any food. Cats’ noses are sensitive, and an overwhelming smell of food may cause them to drink less. Filtered drinking fountains can also be used in place of a water bowl.
Join the Cat Care Community!
Sign up now for exclusive monthly cat care tips delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your name and email below to stay updated with the best advice for your kitty companions!
"*" indicates required fields
No Committee
--------------------------------------------------
Learn more about how Purina and Petfinder are making a difference together.
9 to 13 inches
8 to 14 pounds
Solid gray-blue
Medium to large
15 to 18 years
no
While gentle Nebelung cats are shy and slightly aloof with strangers, they are loyal, loving, and deeply affectionate with their family and well-known friends. Once Nebelungs form close bonds of love and trust, they maintain them for life. This breed adores human company and will want to be your shadow, following you wherever you go, always eager to get in on the action. Nebelungs make excellent lap cats and can be demanding when they want to cuddle.
A relatively new cat, the Nebelung originated in America in the 1980s as a cross between a Russian Blue and an Angora Cat. The name Nebelung comes from the German “Nebel” meaning “fog” or “mist,” and “nebo” in Russian, which means “sky” or “heaven.”
Owners will want to be home during the day or have another cat companion to keep the social Nebelung cat busy and occupied. Unlike some independent cats, the Nebelung has an intense desire to cuddle and will want to spend a lot of time interacting with owners.
These active cats love to play. Cat trees, platforms, toys, games, and food-dispensing puzzles are all right up their alley. Most importantly Nebelung cats will want to play with their owners, especially as kittens. They won’t mind being alone but they prefer to race around the house, climb furniture, and solicit pets from their owners.
Nebelungs enjoy outdoor time, but they should only be allowed to be outside when they are in a secure yard or cat run. Their silky coat is not weatherproof and can cause them to overheat easily. During the summer months, they should be kept indoors.
The Nebelung can groom itself, but check their bottoms, ears, and mouths regularly for debris.
Nebelung cats are intelligent and curious cats who learn quickly. They are easily capable of learning new tricks and do well with positive reinforcement. They can be clicker trained.
Nebelungs make good family cats. They get along well with family, other cats, dogs, and older children. However, these cats are sensitive to noise and can get easily agitated by busy households. Quieter households are more their speed.
The cost of a Nebelung from a breeder is significantly more than the cost of adopting one from a local shelter or rescue. The adoption fee usually covers additional items such as spaying or neutering, vaccines, and microchipping.
Learn more about feeding and caring for your Nebelung on Purina.
Whiskery kisses are worth their weight in gold, but how much do cats cost when you really get down to the purr-ticulars?  The cost of a cat or kitten runs a range depending on cat breed, age and even your lifestyle, but the basics come in around a minimum of $405 for the first year, and about $340
Providing identification for your pet  Placing identification on our pets is a basic task for a pet guardian, yet so many well-loved pets become lost without a collar and an identification tag to bring them safely home. Collars—with identification--are your pets’ fastest ticket back to you should t
--------------------------------------------------
