The AKC has awarded the Norfolk Terrier Club the 2023 Eddy Award for providing outstanding breeder education materials to its members and new breeders. Follow this link to learn more about the reward.
Member Login

Official Standard of the Norfolk Terrier

General Appearance: The Norfolk Terrier, game and hardy, with expressive dropped ears, is one of the smallest of the working terriers. It is active and compact, free-moving, with good substance and bone. With its natural, weather-resistant coat and short legs, it is a "perfect demon" in the field. This versatile, agreeable breed can go to ground, bolt a fox and tackle or dispatch other small vermin, working alone or with a pack. Honorable scars from wear and tear are acceptable in the ring.
Size, Proportion, Substance: Height at the withers 9 to 10 inches at maturity. Bitches tend to be smaller than dogs. Length of back from point of withers to base of tail should be slightly longer than the height at the withers. Good substance and bone. Weight 11 to 12 pounds or that which is suitable for each individual dog's structure and balance. Fit working condition is a prime consideration.
Head: Eyes small, dark and oval, with black rims. Placed well apart with a sparkling, keen and intelligent expression. Ears neatly dropped, small, with a break at the skull line, carried close to the cheek and not falling lower than the outer corner of the eye. V-shaped, slightly rounded at the tip, smooth and velvety to the touch. Skull wide, slightly rounded, with good width between the ears. Muzzle is strong and wedge shaped. Its length is one-third less than a measurement from the occiput to the well-defined stop. Jaw clean and strong. Tight-lipped with a scissor bite and large teeth.
Neck, Topline, Body: Neck of medium length, strong and blending into well laid back shoulders. Level topline. Good width of chest. Ribs well sprung, chest moderately deep.
Strong loins. Tail medium docked, of sufficient length to ensure a balanced outline. Straight, set on high, the base level with the topline. Not a squirrel tail.
Hindquarters: Broad with strong, muscular thighs. Good turn of stifle. Hocks well let down and straight when viewed from the rear. Feet as in front.
Coat: The protective coat is hard, wiry and straight, about 11⁄2 to 2 inches long, lying close to the body, with a definite undercoat. The mane on neck and shoulders is longer and also forms a ruff at the base of the ears and the throat. Moderate furnishings of harsh texture on legs. Hair on the head and ears is short and smooth, except for slight eyebrows and whiskers. Some tidying is necessary to keep the dog neat, but shaping should be heavily penalized.
Color: All shades of red, wheaten, black and tan, or grizzle. Dark points permissible. White marks are not desirable.
Gait: Should be true, low and driving. In front, the legs extend forward from the shoulder. Good rear angulation showing great powers of propulsion. Viewed from the side, hind legs follow in the track of the forelegs, moving smoothly from the hip and flexing well at the stifle and hock. Topline remains level.

Approved October 13, 1981
Reformatted March 23, 1990
--------------------------------------------------
Norfolk Terriers are active and intelligent dogs. They do not make good loners. Dogs prefer to be with their owner all the time. Terriers, as a rule, are interested in everything that family members do. The owner of such a dog should always think about his leisure time. Otherwise, the animal will start to be mischievous. Like all terriers, they may chew and dig if they are bored. They tend to be stubborn.
The Norfolk Terrier, a close relative of the Norwich Terrier, was born in East Anglia. These two breeds were popular at Cambridge University among students in the nineteenth century. A dog named Rex, who lived in a stable near Norwich, became the founding father of the Norwich Terrier. Breeders crossed other terriers with Rex and his offspring. The result was an excellent rat and fox hunter.
The Norwich Terrier was introduced to America in 1914. The American Kennel Club recognized the breed only 22 years later. The Norwich and Norfolk Terriers were considered one breed until 1979.
The Norfolk Terrier is a small dog with floppy ears. It is one of the smallest terriers. The Norfolk reaches a height of 25 cm at the withers and 22 cm in females. An adult male dog weighs 5 kg, and bitches weigh up to 4.
The Norfolk coat is short, stiff, and straight. The breed has a pronounced undercoat. The Norfolk molts twice a year. The colors can be red, wheat, black, tan, black and gray, or red and white mixed with a gray pattern.
Norfolk Terriers are active and intelligent dogs. They do not make good loners. Dogs prefer to be with their owner all the time. Terriers, as a rule, are interested in everything that family members do. The owner of such a dog should always think about his leisure time. Otherwise, the animal will start to be mischievous. Like all terriers, they may chew and dig if they are bored. They tend to be stubborn.
Norfolk Terriers need constant interaction with people. They get along well with other dogs and cats, especially if the animals were raised together.
Norfolk Terriers are excellent guard dogs. But size does not allow the dog to show his authority in front of an aggressor. Norfolks can bark excessively if not properly trained. The dog may pull on the leash. Owners are discouraged from walking an animal without a leash. The hunter’s instinct may encourage the dog to chase small animals and children.
Norfolks are ideal for people who need a small and active dog. The animal does not require a large yard. Terriers don’t feel well when left alone for long periods.
This breed is easy for the owner to take care of. During shedding, the dog should be brushed twice a week. At other times – much less often. The Norfolk Terrier should be treated against fleas, ticks, and other parasites. It is an uncomplicated systematic work to minimize the risks of various diseases.
The pet should be bathed no more than once a month. After a walk, the owner can wipe the pet with a damp towel. Norfolk ears should be washed once a week.
Training needs to start early. They should be clear and consistent but gentle – Norfolk is very sensitive. In typical terrier fashion, he can be stubborn. The Norfolk loves his food. So a tasty tidbit can help convince your dog that complying with your wish is a good idea.
Master control is vital for Norfolk. Because its instinct to hunt, combined with its complete lack of sense of the road, can easily lead an animal into trouble.
The hardy Norfolk Terrier has no particular health problems. However, there is a tendency to certain diseases:
The owner always has a choice – to feed the pet dry food or by-products. The basic rule that every dog owner should know is that the daily feeding rate directly depends on the amount of exercise that the Norfolk Terrier has spent during that time. The bowl of food should be removed 15-20 minutes after serving. It does not depend on whether the dog has eaten the food or not. Unlike food, the Norfolk Terrier must have constant access to water.
Copyright © 2025 fello.pet |
| Privacy policy
--------------------------------------------------
Until 1964, what we now know as the Norfolk Terrier and the Norwich Terrier were both shown as the Norwich Terrier. This breed, recognised in 1932 had two permissible types of ear, the drop eared variety now known as the Norfolk and the prick eared variety now known as the Norwich. They are the smallest of the terrier breeds but with great substance for their size and characters to match.
In 1957 Norwich Terrier breeders decided to treat the two types as separate breeds and cross breeding was discouraged and so the campaign started to have the two types recognised as two separate breeds. They met some opposition from The Kennel Club and the campaign became at times quite heated. In 1964 The Kennel Club relented and the drop eared variety received its nomenclature as the Norfolk Terrier.
Dogs originally bred and used for hunting vermin. 'Terrier' comes from the Latin word Terra, meaning earth. This hardy collection of dogs were selectively bred to be extremely brave and tough, and to pursue fox, badger, rat and otter (to name but a few) above and below ground. Dogs of terrier type have been known here since ancient times, and as early as the Middle Ages, these game breeds were portrayed by writers and painters.
Category 0: Breeds with no NBS colour registration options. Read more about Colour Watch.
Breed standard colour means that the colour is accepted within the breed standard and is a traditional and well-known colour in this breed.
Breed standard colours in this breed include:
'Other' means you consider your puppy to be a colour not currently known within the breed and one that does not appear on either the breed standard or non-breed standard list. In this instance you would be directed through our registrations process to contact a breed club and/or council to support you on identifying and correctly listing the new colour.
Non-breed-standard colour means that the colour is not accepted within the breed standard and whilst some dogs within the breed may be this colour it is advised to only select a dog that fits within the breed standards for all points.
Colour is only one consideration when picking a breed or individual dog, health and temperament should always be a priority over colour.
Whether you're considering buying a Norfolk Terrier puppy or breeding from your dog, it's important to understand the health issues that may affect the breed and how they can be managed or avoided.
At this time this breed does not have any recommended pre-breeding health screening in place, however breeders and puppy buyers should check frequently as this may change once new evidence and research becomes available.
We don’t currently offer a breed-specific DNA testing package for this breed, but we have a wide selection of individual DNA tests available. To find out more and view our full selection, click here
The Breed Health and Conservation Plans
Our breed health and conservations plans (BHCPs) use evidence and data to help us understand the health issues found in each pedigree dog breed. These plans help breeders and owners identify health and welfare problems and use information, health tests and health schemes to avoid passing on those problems to future puppies. They also support and provide breeders with tools and specialist expertise to help manage genetic diversity, understand the impacts of close breeding, and find the best ways to preserve the population of their breed.
Working together for the breed
We’ve worked with breed clubs and breed representatives to gather all available evidence to help us determine the priority concerns for the breed and decide how we can work together to manage and reduce these problems.
The full evidence base is available at the discretion of the breed clubs, however if you would like to seek access to the full report, please contact our health team.
Health (The Kennel Club)
If you have any concerns about a particular health condition in your breed then you may wish to speak to your vet or you could contact your breed health co-ordinator.Breed health co-ordinators are individuals working on behalf of breed clubs and councils who are advocates for the health and welfare of their chosen breed. They acts as a spokesperson on matters of health and will collaborate with The Kennel Club on any health concerns the breed may have.To contact your breed health co-ordinator please email



Category 1
Currently no points of concern specific to this breed have been identified for special attention by judges, other than those covered routinely by The Kennel Club's breed standard.
There are a number of The Kennel Club's rules and regulations that may prevent a litter from being registered, find out about our general and breed specific breeding restrictions below.
There are not currently any additional breed specific restrictions in place for this breed.
Looking for a Norfolk Terrier? Explore our list of puppies and rescue dogs for sale near you.
Use our Find a Club service where you can locate breed clubs that can offer support and advice.
The Kennel Club's Find a Puppy service provides contact details for breeders who have puppies available. Let's help you find your new best friend.
At Kennel Club Pet Insurance, we want you to focus on getting the best possible treatment for your dog without worrying about the cost.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Sue Thatcher, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 26, 2025 by Joe Burns
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Norfolk Terrier is an amiable little dog, measuring up to 12 inches tall. They are alert, lively, and playful, and known to be good with children: a combination that makes them especially popular with young families, and they will form very close bonds with their humans. However, the Norfolk Terrier also makes a good watchdog because they are lively and alert and switched on to the presence or emergence of potential threats.
Make time for plenty of exercise, ensure you train and socialize the dog, and enjoy regular playtime to ensure that the Norfolk Terrier is a happy addition to a home.
Height:
10 – 12 inches
Weight:
10 – 15 pounds
Lifespan:
12 – 15 years
Colors:
White, blue, silver, red, brown, gray, black
Suitable for:
Families looking for a lively, loyal, loving watchdog
Temperament:
Loyal, affectionate, friendly, lively, fun, alert
The Norfolk Terrier is closely related to the Norwich Terrier. Both breeds were once considered the same but are now classified as separate by kennel clubs. The Norfolk Terrier has folded ears while the Norwich Terrier has rounded ones: otherwise, there are few differences between the two.
Originally bred to deal with rats, the Norfolk Terrier is an independent little dog. While this does mean that it shouldn’t suffer separation anxiety, it also means that it needs to be entertained when you leave the house. Provide toys and offer both physical and mental stimulation to ensure that your little terrier behaves well while you’re away from home.

Even in the UK, where the breed originates, the Norfolk Terrier is a rare breed, having been placed on the Kennel Club’s “at watch” list. Only around 400 examples of the breed are registered there, each year. Outside the UK, the breed is even scarcer, which means potential buyers need to take care to ensure they really are buying a Norfolk Terrier.
Ideally, meet both parent dogs, but at least the mother, and make sure you know what a Norfolk Terrier looks like when you do visit. Ask for proof of health screening and when you do meet the puppy, ensure that it looks healthy and that it is attentive without being overconfident. Although they are scarce, Norfolk Terriers are not that highly sought after, which means prices should still be reasonable.
Consider adopting a Norfolk Terrier. Although they make good pets, some can still end up in shelters and rescues. It’s a difficult life for any dog in a shelter, and by adopting, you not only give that dog a good life, but you also enable the shelter to rescue another dog.
As with any puppy, the Norfolk Terrier will need socializing and training early. These early months represent the developmental stages in a dog’s life. What your puppy learns before it reaches adulthood will be instilled in them throughout their later years. Introduce them to new people, other dogs, and situations they haven’t yet encountered. They will learn that new things are nothing to be feared, which will make them less likely to be standoffish with other dogs or aloof around strangers.

The Norfolk Terrier was originally bred to hunt and dispose of rats. It would have worked independently, being left to locate and dispatch rats without too much human intervention. Although it is more likely to be kept as a pet than a working dog today, the breed still retains many of its original traits. It is relentless in pursuit of its goals, needs physical and mental stimulation, and can be an independent pup.
Despite its independent nature, the Norfolk Terrier can make a delightful pet. They are loving with family and friendly with strangers. They will usually get along with other dogs, although do have a natural prey drive. It will chase smaller animals, and even the movement of fluttering bags or the occasional blowing leaf can lead to running out of the garden, so owners need a secure outdoor area. The size of the breed means that it can adapt to life in an apartment, but it will require regular exercise and stimulation to ensure that it doesn’t become bored and potentially destructive.
The Norfolk Terrier does enjoy playing and will benefit from having somebody willing to throw a ball, pull a rope, and find other ways to keep it entertained. Alternatively, canine sports are a good outlet for this breed’s physical needs and mental acuity.
Norfolk Terriers make very good family pets. They are loving with their human family members, as well as being bright and lively. They especially enjoy playing and because they are terriers, they are tough little dogs that can handle a little rough play, even with young humans.
You will need to train your Norfolk to be gentle around young children, while also ensuring that young children know how to be respectful around smaller dogs. The breed can be somewhat protective over children, but they usually understand what constitutes playtime, so they are more likely to join in if children have friends over.
The Norfolk Terrier was bred to hunt rats, which means it has a strong prey drive for smaller animals. Any rats, hamsters, and potentially even small rabbits could be under threat if they are let out of their cage, so ensure all small animals are securely kept away while the dog has access to the room.
Otherwise, it will do well with other pets, as long as you take the time to make gradual introductions. The playful nature of the breed means that while it might want to befriend cats, the cats might be reluctant to be involved. Generally, dogs will learn barriers quite quickly, especially following feline admonishment. It will usually get along with other dogs and might benefit from having a canine playmate to keep it entertained.

The Norfolk Terrier can do well in an apartment but can also benefit from living in a house with space outside to run and play. Ensure that the yard or garden is secured, however, because terriers are renowned for being good at escaping. This will especially be a problem if the dog sees a cat or small animal nearby. Terriers are good at digging, which means you need to protect valued plants. You will need to ensure fences and other barriers do not allow easy egress via freshly excavated subterranean tunnels.
While the breed is not known for being aggressive, it is highly alert and constantly on the lookout. Although not prone to barking, the Norfolk Terrier will sound an alert if it sees or hears something it considers a threat, and this combination makes the breed a handy watchdog.
This relatively small breed doesn’t have a huge dietary requirement. They will eat around one cup of dry kibble per day, although if your Norfolk Terrier is especially active, they might benefit from being given a little more. If you use food-based tidbits as training tools, or you give treats as a general reward for good behavior, you will need to take this into account and reduce the amount of food you give. With small breeds, it is very easy to overfeed because it only takes a couple of treats or an extra handful of food to surpass their calorific requirements.
If you feed canned food, follow the manufacturer’s guidelines regarding the volume of food. And if your vet has recommended a specific diet, follow those guidelines above all others. Like most dogs, the Norfolk Terrier will do well on two meals a day, and like a lot of terriers, you might have to find ways to slow your Norfolk’s feeding habits. Try a slow feeder bowl, which restricts the amount of food your dog can wolf down in one sitting.
Fresh drinking water should be readily available, and access should not be restricted.
The breed is lively and alert and will enjoy spending time playing and generally burning off energy. This will also benefit you because it will reduce incidents of playful exuberance, which can manifest as undesirable behavior.
Provide 30 to 60 minutes of walks per day and look for other ways to exercise your Norfolk Terrier. The breed can do well in agility and may also take to other forms of canine sports, which also provide a great way to build a bond between the two of you.
Training is an important part of any dog’s development, but especially for an independent-minded breed like the Norfolk Terrier. If you don’t provide direction and guidance, they will make up their own mind about what is acceptable behavior, which will increase the likelihood of unwanted behavior.
Enroll in puppy classes when your dog is young. Your dog will learn basic commands, and you will learn how to train your dog. It will also give you a sympathetic environment in which to start socializing your dog. Other attendees will be in the same boat and will be looking for opportunities to introduce their young dogs to other people and other puppies.
You should continue both socialization and training outside puppy classes. Training typically starts with litter training and with terrier breeds, you will want to teach “drop” and “leave” commands, as well as “stay.” Use positive reinforcement training techniques and reward and praise your dog for positive behavior, while ignoring or distracting your dog when it does something you don’t want to repeat. The playful Norfolk Terrier may see a lot of things as a game, so make sure you aren’t accidentally encouraging unwanted behaviors.
Also, ensure that your puppy meets different groups of people by taking different routes and trying to go on walks at different times of the day. Socialization can also continue in the home. Invite family and friends around, although don’t overstimulate your puppy with too many visitors at once, and bear in mind that young dogs will need time to escape and sleep so they can process all the new situations they have faced.
The Norfolk Terrier has a double coat with a soft undercoat and a wiry topcoat. Although it doesn’t require too much intense grooming, you should brush the coat at least every couple of days. You should also trim the coat every few months but don’t be too vigorous with the trimming. The unkempt look of the Norfolk Terrier is part of its appeal and is typical of this type of dog.
Brush teeth at least twice a week and ideally every day, using a dog toothbrush and toothpaste. If you start when your dog is still a puppy, it will be easier for both of you when your dog gets older. Similarly, start trimming nails when your dog is still a puppy.
Terriers are generally tough and hardy breeds, and the Norfolk Terrier is no exception to this. However, like any breed, it is somewhat prone to certain hereditary conditions and some other problems. In particular, the Norfolk is prone to allergies and may also develop hip dysplasia and arthritis.
Hip dysplasia occurs when the bones of the hip do not develop properly, and it can cause discomfort, eventually leading to arthritis. It may be possible to have an operation to help prevent the problem from worsening. Arthritis is painful and can prevent normal movement. Medication is available to help control the symptoms but there is no cure for arthritis once it has developed.

Male Norfolk Terriers will grow slightly larger and heavier than females, although both genders remain small. Males can be more playful, but they are also more prone to wanderlust and more likely to try and escape. Females can be more prone to temperament changes and are less cuddly than males. However, the character of the individual dog, as well as its upbringing and history, are more likely to determine the traits and characteristics of a dog.

The breed was originally developed by Frank Jones, an English horseman. He wanted a dog that was skilled as a rat killer but would also join fox hunts. Originally, the breed was named the Jones Terrier after its founder, but this was later changed to the Norfolk Terrier.
Norfolk is a county in England, and Norwich is its most populous city. Before the late 20th Century, the Norfolk Terrier was known as the Norwich Terrier, which could have either folded ears or straight ears. However, the breed split off with the Norwich Terrier having straight ears and the Norfolk Terrier having the folded ears.
Terriers are well known for being independent dogs, which can make them a challenge for owners. Although the Norfolk Terrier is considered less independent than other terrier breeds, they still have an independent streak. This means they will sometimes do what they want, rather than what you want, and will require regular and ongoing training to help dull this independent nature. Luckily, the Norfolk Terrier is also considered friendlier and more personable than other terrier breeds.

The Norfolk Terrier is a relatively new breed, having been developed in the 20th Century as a rat hunter and fox bolter. Although it is somewhat independent in nature, it makes a good family pet because it is loyal to its humans and easier to manage than other terrier breeds.
Despite this, it is a relatively unknown breed, even in the UK where it was developed. If you do manage to find a Norfolk Terrier, expect to spend time playing and invest as much time as possible into training and socialization while your dog is still young: you will benefit from the hours you invest when your dog gets older.
Featured Image Credit: Sue Thatcher, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Matt is a freelance writer from the UK. He lives with his partner and daughter, as well as two cats and one dog.
A data analyst by profession, Matt moved from numbers to words more than 15 years ago and has been writing ever since. Having volunteered at a local animal sanctuary, he has a lot of experience with dogs, cats, and horses. Matt has also kept bearded dragons, a variety of birds, fish, guinea pigs, hamsters, mice, and rats. His daughter has adopted the same passion for animals, keeping and breeding snakes.
A geek at heart, Matt is a member of a local board gaming group and regularly forces his family to “enjoy” board games with him at home.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Norfolk Terrier is a small, robust, and energetic breed known for its hardy nature and charming personality. They are one of the smallest working terriers but are quite robust and hearty for their size. The breed is often confused with the Norwich Terrier, as they were once considered the same breed.

The Norfolk Terrier originates from Great Britain, specifically from the East Anglia region in England. The breed developed in the late 19th and early 20th centuries as a working terrier used for controlling the vermin population around barns and stables. The Norfolk Terrier and the Norwich Terrier were originally categorized as a single breed under the Norwich Terrier name, with two types distinguished by their ear type - prick ears (Norwich) and drop ears (Norfolk). They were separated into two distinct breeds in 1964 by the English Kennel Club and in 1979 by the American Kennel Club.
Norfolk Terriers can suffer from degenerative myelopathy and progressive rod-cone degeneration. They may also be susceptible to Mitral Valve Disease, hip dysplasia, and patellar luxation. Other specific hereditary conditions for which they should be tested include congenital macrothrombocytopenia, ichthyosis (epidermolytic hyperkeratosis), and muscular dystrophy.
Norfolk Terriers are known for their spirited, good-natured, and loyal personalities. They are generally good with children and other dogs, making them suitable for families. They're highly intelligent, trainable, and love to please their owners, although they can exhibit the independent nature characteristic of terriers. As a working terrier, the Norfolk is energetic and enjoys regular exercise, but they also adapt well to various living conditions, including city life, as long as they get enough physical and mental stimulation.
Before it was recognized as a distinct breed, the Norfolk Terrier was often referred to as the Norwich Terrier (drop-eared variety). Other historical names include the Trumpington Terrier and Cantab Terrier.While Norfolk Terriers are small, they're robust and were originally bred for catching rats and other small vermin.They became popular among students at Cambridge University in the late 19th and early 20th centuries when they were called Cantab Terriers.Norfolk Terriers are one of the smallest working terriers but have a surprisingly big bark for their size.
https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/norfolk-terrier/ https://www.ukcdogs.com/norfolk-terrier  https://www.fci.be/en/nomenclature/NORFOLK-TERRIER-272.htmlhttps://www.hillspet.com/dog-care/dog-breeds/norfolk-terrierhttps://vgl.ucdavis.edu/breed/norfolk-terrier
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
