Image Credit: Kucher Serhii, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 24, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Ocicat is a medium-sized purebred recognized by the Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) and The International Cat Association. The exotic-looking cats are not genuinely exotic since they are 100% pure domestic cats. The Ocicat is named after the Ocelot, a medium-sized wild cat with a beautiful dappled coat native to South American rainforests.
Height:
9–11 inches
Weight:
6–14 pounds
Lifespan:
10–15 years
Colors:
Blue, lavender, chocolate, tawny, cinnamon, fawn
Suitable for:
Active families who are home most of the time
Temperament:
Energetic, active, intelligent, affectionate, social, playful
The Ocicat is a graceful and slim athletic cat with long and muscular legs, large ears, and oval eyes. Their coat is smooth and short, and it comes in 12 colors with the signature spots that are generally thumbprint-size. They come in blue, blue-silver, lavender, lavender-silver, chocolate, chocolate-silver, cinnamon, cinnamon-silver, fawn, fawn-silver, ebony-silver, and tawny (which is essentially a spotted tabby).
The Ocicat is a highly energetic cat that, while long-lived and healthy, does have several health issues that will be discussed later on. They are one of the more trainable cats since they are intelligent and devoted to their family, and they are highly social pets that love everyone they meet.

When you’re looking for an Ocicat kitten, be sure you’re dealing with a responsible and reputable breeder; ask lots of questions and request to see their cats’ medical history. A good breeder will not send a kitten home with you that hasn’t been checked by a vet and should be open and honest about everything related to their cats.
Ocicat kittens should also spend the right amount of time with their siblings and mother. The kittens are weaned by about 8 to 10 weeks and are usually ready to leave their mothers when they reach 12 to 13 weeks. This is essential since a kitten removed from their mother too soon will be prone to health issues and behavioral problems.
You could also consider adopting an Ocicat from a rescue organization, but given their rarity and popularity, that might be a challenge. However, if you find an Ocicat through a rescue group, you’ll give a cat a second chance at a better life.

The Ocicat is a loving and devoted cat that will follow you around the house and might enjoy a ride on your shoulder. They love to play as much as curl up on your lap and will seek you out for a long petting session. The Ocicat has a Siamese background and may be more vocal than other cats, but they’re not as noisy as the Siamese.
Ocicats are highly intelligent and sensitive cats and respond well to verbal corrections. They are very adaptable but do not like being left alone for long. If you need to leave the house for work every day, you should consider providing your cat with some company, like another cat or a dog. They are also smart enough to figure out how to open doors and latches, and you may need to cat-proof your home.
The Ocicat is an excellent pet for a family. They are very playful and social and enjoy playing with children of all ages. If you have young children, they must be taught to respect your cat and avoid roughhousing. Sitting down next to them and petting them gently is the ideal approach for the sensitive Ocicat.
The Ocicat gets along well with all other pets, even dogs, as long as they are cat-friendly and their personalities and energy levels are a good fit. As mentioned, the Ocicat might boss the other pets around, but they’re more playful than aggressive and enjoy playing with other animals when their owners are away.

Start by looking for a high-quality dry cat food and follow the guidelines on the back of the bag to determine how much you should feed your Ocicat every day. If you’re worried about your cat’s weight or health, speak to your vet. Also, be aware that when you first bring a cat or kitten home, you should introduce a new food slowly, or stomach issues can occur. Feeding the same brand as the breeder or shelter is ideal, but you can introduce a new formula gradually by adding more of it to the old food every day.
Another consideration is the cat’s water consumption. Providing your Ocicat with canned food once daily is a great way to add moisture to their diet. Plus, investing in a cat fountain will encourage cats to drink more if they prefer to drink from running water.
Exercising your Ocicat is easy, considering how naturally athletic they are. They are very active and enjoy spending a lot of time playing with cat toys and maybe look into cat puzzles to keep them occupied.
They are also skilled jumpers, so be sure your cat can access high places or cat shelves. The Ocicat can learn to walk on a harness, so be prepared for lengthy walks around the neighborhood.
The Ocicat is one of a few breeds that is relatively easy to train. They enjoy playing fetch and can respond to verbal commands. You can even train them to stop unwanted behaviors, such as jumping on your counters, if you provide another alternative, such as a cat tree or condo.
Grooming the Ocicat is easy as she has a short, smooth coat that she will usually take care of by grooming. But getting into the habit of brushing your cat is a bonding experience, and they’ll become accustomed to it quickly when they’re young
Also, regularly trim the Ocicat’s claws and invest in a cat scratcher to keep your furniture intact. Brushing her teeth is another grooming habit you should get into when she’s a kitten, but you can also give her dental treats to keep her teeth and gums in good shape.
The Ocicat is a healthy cat, but they’re vulnerable to some of the same health conditions from their Siamese heritage. It’s a good idea to learn more about these conditions for future reference.
Your vet will check your Ocicat’s eyes, teeth, and gums and run heart, urinalysis, and blood tests to rule out these health problems. If you adopted your kitten from a breeder, they should have already screened their cats for these conditions.

The female Ocicat is usually smaller than the male; the average female weighs 6 to 9 pounds, and the male weighs 9 to 14 pounds. Spaying the female Ocicat will stop her from going into heat and is usually a more expensive operation than neutering. Neutering the male is a more straightforward surgery and will stop him from spraying and possibly more aggressive behaviors.
There are many who believe that male Ocicats are generally more affectionate than females and that females might take longer to trust you and, therefore, will be more cautious. However, how the Ocicat kitten was raised, how long they were with their littermates and mothers, as well as how they’ve been treated by humans, will affect their personalities more than their sex.

In 1964, a breeder crossed an Abyssinian with a Siamese only to have a litter of beige-coated, spotted kittens, which was not the expected outcome. Later, the American Shorthair was crossed into the mix, where the modern Ocicat gets the silver color and some of the bone structure and color patterns that we see today.
They can be trained, are very social, and are devoted to their family. They’ve also been known to walk on a leash and play fetch.
One of the Ocicat’s traits is they like being the dominant pets when living with other cats or dogs, and they’re possessive of their toys. Expect the Ocicat to rule the house.

If you’re looking for an Ocicat breeder, there are a few online, but there aren’t as many as there are the more popular varieties, so be prepared for a lengthy search. You can contact local or national cat clubs if you’re having difficulties locating one and consider putting a message out on social media.
If you’re looking for a cat that will get along with everyone she meets and is show-stopping in her appearance, the Ocicat might be the perfect fit for your family.
Featured Image Credit: Kucher Serhii, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Cat Breeds
Despite its wild appearance, the Ocicat is one hundred percent domestic, so it’s ideal for those who long for a cat with exotic looks and a tame, friendly personality. Named for its remarkable resemblance to the ocelot, the Ocicat has a short coat that’s easy to care for, and its temperament is so gregarious that it’s often referred to as a dog in a cat’s body.
The Ocicat gets its cheerful, outgoing personality from the breeds that formed its foundation, namely Siamese and Abyssinian. This fantastic cat is capable of walking on a leash, playing fetch, and learning tricks and commands that are typically associated with dogs rather than cats.
This fun-loving cat seeks good times above all other things and will happily follow its people wherever they go. Nowhere is off limits: Many Ocicats love water and enjoy following their human friends at shower or bath time, poking curious paws into the water to make sure that everything is as it should be! Ocicat owners with koi ponds and aquariums must often go to great lengths to cat-proof or risk having their finned friends become targets for fishing.
Like Orientals and other breeds descended from Siamese, Ocicats long for human attention and can become despondent if they are ignored or neglected. Families who must spend lots of time away at work and school find that their Ocicats tend to regain their cheerful nature when they have another pet to play with. These cats typically get along well with other friendly felines and they’re equally capable of forming lifelong bonds with well-behaved dogs.
Ocicats have a reputation for greeting visitors and getting on well with entire families. At the same time, they have a tendency to choose a favorite person.
Similar to other breeds with Siamese heritage, Ocicats can be quite vocal. They love to chat back and forth with their favorite people and the more you talk to them, the more they’ll “talk” back to you!
Ocicats don’t have any special nutritional needs but they do require high-protein, high-quality diets that focus on real meat and fish.
Sleek, short hair makes the Ocicat easy to care for. A once-weekly brushing should be enough to remove any loose hairs and help prevent excess shedding.
Consider brushing your cat’s teeth and think about clipping their claws regularly to prevent damage to your furniture.
Ocicats are extremely athletic, and they have no trouble zooming around the house, jumping onto the highest possible vantage points, and climbing whatever they can.
Ocicats typically enjoy good health, however they do have the potential to develop some known health issues including progressive retinal atrophy, renal amyloidosis, and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. While these aren’t common concerns, they’re worth watching for.
The Ocicat was originally created as a hybrid, when a Michigan cat breeder named Virginia Daly used an Abyssinian and a Siamese in an attempt to produce Abyssinian-pointed Siamese. Among the offspring in matings between second generation cats with Abyssinian points was a spotted kitten named Tonga.
Tonga was neutered and enjoyed life as a pet but breeders who were attempting to produce more Abyssinian-pointed Siamese cats took note of the beautiful spotted offspring that often occurred, and interest steadily increased until separate breeding programs were formed using the formula Siamese to Abyssinian, then by breeding offspring of the first pairing to Siamese.
The first “official” Ocicat was named Dalai Dotson, and was registered with The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) in 1966.
Subsequent generations were the result of breedings between Abyssinians, Siamese, and American Shorthair: CFA made an error when recording breed information, originally noting that Ocicats were produced with Abyssinian and American Shorthair parents. When they sought to correct the error and add “Siamese,” they didn’t remove American Shorthair. The inclusion of American Shorthairs in the foundation ultimately led to larger size and added silver to the list of previously existing colors.
CFA granted the Ocicat provisional status in 1986. In 1987, both CFA and TICA granted Ocicats championship status. Today, many cat breed registries recognize the Ocicat.
The name “Ocicat” was originally a nickname. Original Ocicat breeder Virginia Daly had a daughter - also named Virginia - who coined the term “Ocicat.”
Ocicat size varies widely: The smallest Ocicats come in at about six pounds while the largest weigh in at about fifteen pounds.
“Cat-proof” your house if you bring an Ocicat into your family! These intelligent felines quickly learn how to open doors and wiggle their way into drawers, and they’ll happily steal small objects left lying out in the open.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Ocicat, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Ocicat or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase an Ocicat, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Ocicat cats cost between $800-$1,200.
Ocicat cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Ocicat cat might weigh between 6-15 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 9"- 11" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Ocicat is 12-18 years.
Ocicat are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
Are there Bi-Color Red/White Ocicats?
Kind of! The “white” will be more of a silver background. You can see examples here.
How can i tell if our Ocicats meet breed standards. We got 2 brothers from the pound. I kept saying they looked like ocelots which led to our discovering the breed. My wife says they are tabby, ocicats and i say ocicats. I want to win. Any tips ?
There’s no way to officially determine that a cat is any breed unless you have paperwork from their breeder, unfortunately. You can make a visual assessment of whether or not your cat meets the breed standard, but unless you can get official documentation, there’s no way of “proving” that it’s the case.
I have an ocicat with a stump tail.  Does this still qualify as an ocicat?
If your cat is a pedigreed Ocicat, they are still one if they have a short tail, but they won’t meet the breed standard, so you probably won’t get very far if you want to show them.
--------------------------------------------------
This medium to large breed has a well-muscled athletic build with a strong, dense bone structure. This makes them surprisingly heavy for their size, which combined with their low-slung stance and often ‘stalky’ walk, lends much to their ‘big cat’ appearance, even though this is a purely domestic cat with no wild ancestry at all!
The Ocicat is spotted all over, with the pattern forming a distinct bullseye on the sides and a clear M shape between the ears above the eyes. The Ocicat coat should be short and close lying with a satiny sheen that highlights the beautiful spotting pattern.
The Ocicat breed can suffer from:
- Progressive retinal atrophy which is an inherited disorder where part of the eye degenerates and wastes away which can result in blindness.

Testing available:
- DNA testing for progressive retinal atrophy which tests whether or not a cat has the potential to be affected by this condition.
Highly intelligent, active, social and people-oriented, the Ocicat may not be a big-cat, but they very much have the personality and the presence of one! Described by owners as having dog-like tendencies, they love interacting with family members and visitors, will follow people around the home, supervising and sometimes interfering in all that they do. They are incredibly athletic and can jump to high spots, balance on narrow ledges and get to places other cats probably wouldn’t think of.
This is an ‘extra chaos’ type of cat, enjoying a lot of attention and very able to demand it when they feel it is necessary and get that attention by fair means or foul!
The Ocicat was created by accident in 1964 by a breeder trying to produce a Siamese type cat with the ticked point pattern of the Abyssinian. These mating’s ended up producing a stunning spotted kitten that looked remarkably like a wild Ocelot, which led to the name Ocicat. This kitten was used to create a line incorporating Siamese, Abyssinian and American Shorthair genetics, to create the Ocicat breed, with the first Ocicats coming to the UK in the late 1980’s.
A large and extremely secure cat-run will be needed for the Ocicat, unless you can securely cat-proof your entire garden. They need space to run, climb and jump, and you’ll almost certainly need a safe space to leave your Ocicat when you go out unless your whole house is cat-proofed!
Ocicats should not be given unsupervised access to the outdoors, as although bold and athletic they are very curious, large and inclined to get themselves into trouble, as well as being a theft risk.
The Ocicat is probably as demanding as a dog when it comes to attention, enrichment, training and play. Clicker training will help teach your cat useful behaviours such as having them to go a specific bed or place marker, go into a cat carrier, get off certain surfaces and of course, amusing tricks that show off their athleticism. On top of this training, it would be wise to feed most food from puzzle toys that use hunting, searching and climbing skills to find, retrieve and empty food from. You’ll need to take household furniture and décor into account when housing an Ocicat, knick-knacks and ornaments will be pushed from shelving, paperwork shredded and shiny objects stolen and hidden. The Ocicat can become very demanding in a loud way if not given sufficient mental and physical exercise, and failing to meet their needs can result in some very unpleasant behaviour problems including inappropriate toileting, scent marking, self-harm and aggression towards humans.
Every cat is unique and each has their own particular likes, dislikes, and needs when it comes to food. However, cats are carnivores and every cat must obtain 41 different and specific nutrients from their food. The proportion of these nutrients will vary depending on age, lifestyle and overall health, so it's not surprising that a growing, energetic kitten needs a different balance of nutrients in her diet than a less active senior cat. Other considerations to bear in mind are feeding the right quantity of food to maintain 'ideal body condition' in accordance with feeding guidelines and catering to individual preference regarding wet or dry food recipes.
Brush or comb your Ocicat once a week, this provides good handling practice and bonding time as well as taking care of their coat. A greasy coat is a sign your cat is not self-grooming at all and this may indicate poor health.
As with all cats, regular vaccination and parasite control is recommended.
The Ocicat whilst fairly moderate in appearance is often quite extreme behaviourally and they require secure and appropriately Ocicat-proofed housing - and owners who actively wish to amuse and entertain a big strong cat with big strong opinions. Better suited to a calm, quiet household with older teenagers and lots of space.
--------------------------------------------------
Learn more about how Purina and Petfinder are making a difference together.
Medium
9 to 11 inches
6 to 15 pounds
Tawny, cinnamon, chocolate, blue, lilac, or fawn, and can have a silvery background color
10 to 15 years
no
Intelligent, active, and a social butterfly, the Ocicat has a big personality. They love being up to date on family activities and the social calendar and can even seem dog-like in their eagerness. Great “supervisors,” they like to follow their family members around the house, shadowing them. Like a gymnast, Ocicats can jump high and balance on narrow ledges, although it’s up to you whether or not you want to give them a gold medal for doing so. While sweet and inquisitive, Ocicats can be high energy and demanding of owner attention, so they do best with owners who can devote a lot of time and energy to them.
The Ocicat was created accidentally in 1964 in Michigan when a breeder tried to produce a Siamese-type cat that physically resembled the Abyssinian cat. Instead, they ended up creating a spotted cat that looked similar to the wild Ocelot cat, hence the name.
These fun-loving, high-energy cats want owners who can go toe-to-toe with them while playing games and exercising. They love interactive play, toys, and being social, so the more you do around the house that they can observe, the better. They do well with training, which can help calm some of the Ocicat’s hyperactive mind. If you don’t mind a little chaos wrapped in fur, the Ocicat might be a good fit.
The Ocicat is known for their dog-like behavior. They enjoy their humans around the house, but this behavior also extends to their exercise needs. They need a lot of attention and enrichment. Training them to do commands such as “place” and “off” will be helpful in controlling the chaos, and they’ll excel at trick training. They can become loud and vocal about their needs if not given sufficient stimulation.
Ocicats will thrive in a home that can accommodate a secure cat run or a similar outdoor cat-proofed space. They love running, climbing, and jumping. Ocicats should not be unsupervised outdoors as they are bold and curious cats that might bolt.
An Ocicat can mostly take care of its own grooming needs, but a brush or comb through weekly can help them get used to grooming and handling.
Highly intelligent and highly active, the Ocicat benefits greatly from training. They can learn tricks and commands fairly easily through positive reinforcement methods. Like a dog, the Ocicat is eager to please their owner and enjoys being socially active with them during training time. Try getting them to play fetch, walk on a leash, or perform tricks.
If trained well, the Ocicat can make a good family cat for anyone who doesn’t mind having things knocked off shelves occasionally or having a full-time shadow. They are high-energy and highly intelligent cats and thrive in a family setting where they receive enough attention.
The cost of an adult Ocicat from a breeder is significantly more than the cost of adopting one from a local shelter or rescue. The adoption fee usually covers additional items such as spaying or neutering, vaccines, and microchipping.
Learn more about feeding and caring for your Ocicat on Purina.
After a decade as a veterinarian, I’ve got a bit of a routine when it comes to walking into an exam room. By the time I’ve opened the door, my technician has already taken a history, performed a preliminary examination, and told me the primary concerns that bring a feline in to see me. This helps m
According to Arden Moore, author of  The Cat Behavior Answer Book , “cats are capable of making at least 30 sounds, including at least 19 variations on the simple meow.” 

 So why do cats meow? Check out ten possible translations for cat talk and feline language: 

  10) I’m hurt  – If your cat
--------------------------------------------------
The Ocicat stands out among house cats with its wild appearance and lively personality. This breed, which began in the United States, was created by crossing Siamese, Abyssinian, and American Shorthair cats. The result is a breed that looks like an ocelot, a wild spotted cat native to South America, while keeping the friendly and loving nature of a house cat.
Recognized by their almond-shaped eyes, Ocicats have a strong body with a short, spotted coat. The coat patterns look like those of the ocelot, featuring spots or marbled patterns in a variety of colors. Also known for their intelligence and agility, Ocicats are highly interactive and enjoy engaging in activities with their human buddies. They often form strong bonds with their owners and are talkative, using many vocalizations to communicate.
When considering an Ocicat, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase an Ocicat kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Ocicat breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
You aren’t going dotty when you see an Ocicat. You are indeed seeing a small spotted cat, but he’s not wild. Far from it. The Ocicat was created through crosses between Siamese, Abyssinian and American Shorthair cats.
He might be named after the ocelot, a small South American wild felid, but he’s all domestic cat. The Ocicat is one of those happy accidents that sometimes occur in cat breeding. In an attempt to achieve Abyssinian points in her Siamese cats, breeder Virginia Daly crossed a sealpoint Siamese and a ruddy Abyssinian in 1964. The resulting kittens looked like Abys, and when she crossed one of them with a Siamese, she got not only Aby-pointed Siamese but also one kitten who had an ivory-colored coat dotted with gold spots. She named him Tonga and sold him as a pet, but when repeat breedings produced more spotted kittens, they became the foundation of a new breed.
American Shorthairs were also used in their development, to add greater size and bring in the silver color. Ocicats were recognized by the Cat Fanciers Association and The International Cat Association in 1987. They are also recognized by all other cat registries.
The Ocicat ranges in size from six to 15 pounds
The devoted and playful Ocicat loves people and will trail their footsteps through the house or ride on a shoulder. Guests are welcomed by this generally social cat as new opportunities for petting or lap sitting. Ocicats don’t even mind being carried around as long as they are with you.
As with any animal, they come in a range of personalities, so some are more shy than others. Favorite activities include retrieving toys and learning to walk on a leash. Ocicats are highly intelligent and learn tricks easily. Puzzle toys are a good way to keep them occupied and entertained. Carefully put away anything you don’t want him to have. He is perfectly capable of figuring out how to open doors or undo latches.
His Siamese ancestors bequeathed the Ocicat a tendency to be vocal, but he is not as loud or as demanding. He is sensitive and will respond to nothing more than a verbal correction. Although the Ocicat is adaptable, he doesn’t like being left alone. Be sure he has another cat or dog as a companion if you aren’t home during the day.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Ocicats are generally healthy, but they have the potential to develop certain health problems.
The Ocicat’s short, smooth coat is simple to groom with weekly brushing or combing to remove dead hairs. A bath is rarely necessary. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing.
Trim the nails weekly. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection. Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene. It’s a good idea to keep an Ocicat as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Ocicats who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such an unusual cat without paying for it.
The Ocicat stands out for his spotted coat, which gives him the look of a small wildcat. The short, smooth, satiny coat comes in 12 colors, all of which feature dark thumbprint-shaped spots on a light background.
Like the Abyssinian, which was one of his ancestors, the Ocicat has what’s called an agouti coat, meaning that each hair has several bands of color (the exception is the tip of the tail). The spots are formed where those bands of color meet. Rows of round spots run along the spine, and more spots are scattered across the shoulders and rear end, extending down the legs.
Broken “bracelets” of spots encircle the legs and broken “necklaces” adorn the throat. Large, well-scattered spots appear on the side of the body and on the belly. The tail has what look like horizontal brushstrokes going ‘round it, sometimes alternating with spots. Markings around the eyes and on the cheeks make the Ocicat look as if he has been at work with a mascara tube.
The forehead is marked with an M (for mischief, no doubt) and small spots cover the lower neck and shoulders. Some Ocicats have classic, mackerel and ticked tabby coats, which are beautiful, but aren’t correct for the show ring. Those cats have the same great Ocicat personality, however, and make wonderful pets.
The Ocicat has a medium-size to large body. He is muscular yet graceful. Large ears corner the modified wedge-shaped head. Some Ocicats have tufts of fur that extend vertically from the tips of the ears. Large almond-shaped eyes angle slightly upward and can be any color except blue. The lengthy tail has a dark tip.
The gentle and playful Ocicat is well suited to life with families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He can learn tricks, enjoys interactive toys, and loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect.
Supervise young children and show them how to pet the cat nicely. Instead of holding or carrying the cat, have them sit on the floor and pet him. It’s likely that the Ocicat will dominate other cats in the household and may even rule the dogs. Always introduce any pets, even other cats, slowly and in a controlled setting.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!








Share article
--------------------------------------------------
