Cat Breeds
If you love Siamese cats, then you'll probably adore Oriental Shorthair cats just as much! These amazing kitties are sized and shaped like their close cousins, but they display an incredible variety of colors and patterns.
Not only is The Oriental Shorthair a visually stunning cat, members of this breed tend to be exceptionally friendly and outgoing, with a fondness for nearly everyone they meet including other felines and even well-behaved dogs. The more friends, the better – in fact, while some breeds prefer solitary life, Oriental Shorthair cats enjoy living in groups!
These amazing kitties are well-suited to most families, but they do require lots of attention. Oriental Shorthair cats are highly social, and they can become depressed if left alone too often. The good news is that furry companions stave off loneliness in this breed just as well as human family members, so those who must often spend more time away at work than at home can enjoy sharing life with one of these delightful cats so long as there's a compatible pet in the home.
While Oriental Shorthair cats develop friendly feelings for multiple people, they have a tendency to choose a favorite person and spend most of their time in close contact.
Oriental Shorthair cats have no special nutritional needs, however they benefit from a high-protein diet that includes real meat or fish as the main ingredient. Choosing a high-quality brand, offering fresh food, or providing a combination of the two is an excellent way to promote good health and longevity.
The Oriental Shorthair does an outstanding job of keeping its beautiful single layer coat neat and tidy, but you can reduce shedding even more by grooming your cat with a soft brush once or twice per week to remove any dead hairs. Afterward, polish their coat with a chamois or a silk scarf to bring out the shine.
Since Oriental Shorthair cats are extremely active, you may wish to minimize damage to your furniture by keeping your cat's claws trimmed. Teach your cat to accept trimming and toothbrushing from a young age to make these grooming processes fuss-free when they reach adulthood.
Oriental Shorthair cats are extreme athletes, with the ability to make extraordinary leaps and high jumps. They're speedy, too: these cats love to race around the house, either alone or with their favorite furry friend. If you have two Oriental Shorthair cats, you'll enjoy watching them compete!
Be sure to offer your cat at least one tall cat tree that offers a good view of the room where everyone spends the most time. Of course, they'll appreciate multiple cat trees if your home will accommodate them – otherwise, they're likely to find the highest perches they can in each room!
Scratching posts and toys are other essentials: These will help keep your cat occupied when you are not able to offer interactive play and they'll help save your belongings from becoming playthings
Oriental Shorthair cats are generally very healthy but some individuals are at an elevated risk for complications including asthma, megaesophagus, mast cell cancer, dilated cardiomyopathy, feline lower urinary tract disease, and liver amyloidosis. They can also suffer from some eye issues including progressive retinal atrophy and crossed eyes.
Oriental Shorthair cat history begins with the Siamese. It's a connection that is easy to see since the two breeds share so many similarities.
A group of New York cat breeders including Vicki and Peter Markstein, Angela Sayers, and Patricia White developed the Oriental Shorthair cat between 1971 and 1972, after noting the many beautiful and intriguing colors and patterns displayed by these cats.
This small group of enthusiasts led the way for the formation of the Oriental Shorthair's International group, which was formed in 1973.
In 1976, Peter Markstein introduced the, Oriental Shorthair cat to the Cat Fanciers Association, which granted acceptance for championship status in 1977. Since then, Oriental Shorthair cats have gained recognition with a number of registries worldwide.
Whatever your favorite cat color, it's likely that you could find an Oriental Shorthair to match: There are over 300 different color combinations listed in Oriental Shorthair breed standards. For this reason, The Oriental Shorthair has been nicknamed the "Rainbow cat."
There is no such thing as a truly hypoallergenic cat, but The Oriental Shorthair comes fairly close, since it produces a smaller amount of the Fel D1 protein that causes reactions in those with cat allergies.
Just like Siamese, Oriental Shorthair cats vocalize frequently, expressing themselves with an impressive vocabulary. If you are looking for a cat that likes to talk, you might want to put the Oriental Shorthair on your short list.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Oriental Shorthair, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Oriental Shorthair or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase an Oriental Shorthair, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Oriental Shorthair cats cost between  $400-$2000.
Oriental Shorthair cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Oriental Shorthair cat might weigh between 6 - 12 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8"- 10" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Oriental Shorthair is 12-15 years.
Oriental Shorthair are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
The Oriental shorthair kittens start at $2000.00 (Canadain dollars). They are very active and require a lot of attention. The really do best if you have two. They play fetch and you can teach them to do tricks like use the toilet or open doors hit light switches. They are very beautiful and come im many colours with or without patterns. The patterns can range from spots like. A lepord to stipes like a zebra. The cats have many many colours too. The most rare colour is called silver. I like to say that the Oriental shorthair is a hybrid cat of the Siamese. They have big big ears with nice colourful eyes that can be blue brown green yellow. They look skinny but that’s how they should look. If I was to describe the shape of the cat id say it is like a greyhound dog. Nice long sleek nose that goes into a tube-ular body with a long tail. Very awesome cats that love to meow to you about how happy they are to see you and be with you. feel free to google search preciouspoint cattery / oriental shorthair / for more pictures of the wonderful breed.
Thank you for sharing, Steven.
The best cat you will ever be owned by!
I just got owned by one! My other cats are like “ wait a minute, you’re our b!%ch!”
I just got owned by what I feel may be a mix breed of oriental shorthair. I have a huge feral colony here where I live and this one cat who had a totally different look to his face took a liking to me.  He started coming to my door. I just tn without the release him and I’ve been trying to get him acclimated to my home with 3 other cats. He is a very lovable kitty mostly to me. He nudges me and makes biscuits on my arm. He’s very vocal at 5am haha I am curious to find out though his true dna. He has the face of these and the spynx ears aren’t so huge but are bigger and pointier than my other cats. He’s so unique to me and I love him!
Keep him!
--------------------------------------------------
The Oriental Shorthair is a breed of domestic cat that is developed from and closely related to the Siamese cat. It maintains the modern Siamese head and body type but appears in a wide range of coat colors and patterns. Like the Siamese, Orientals have almond-shaped eyes, a triangular head shape, large ears, and an elongated, slender, and muscular body. Their personalities are also very similar. Orientals are social, intelligent, and many are rather vocal. They often remain playful into adulthood, with many enjoying playing fetch. Despite their slender appearance, they are athletic and can leap into high places. They prefer to live in pairs or groups and also seek human interaction. Unlike the breed's blue-eyed forebear, Orientals are usually green-eyed.[1] The Oriental Longhair differs only with respect to coat length.
While the breed's genetic roots are ultimately in Thailand, it was formally developed in the US by a number of New York area cat breeders, led by Vicky and Peter Markstein (PetMark cattery), who in 1971–72 were intrigued by lynx patterned and solid colored cats of a Siamese body type at Angela Sayers' Solitaire Cattery[2] and at Patricia White's.[3] These were based on solid-colored cats with the body of a Siamese, bred by Baroness von Ullmann over the 1950s.[3][4]  An "Oriental Shorthairs International" was formed in 1973,[2] and Peter Markstein presented the breed to the 1976 Annual Cat Fanciers Association, at the same time as the Havana Brown was presented by Joe Bittaker.[5] In 1977 the Oriental Shorthair was accepted by the Cat Fanciers' Association for championship competition. Since 1997, it has also received recognition from the GCCF and various other cat breeding organizations. The breed is among the most popular among CFA members.[6]
The Oriental Shorthair is a member of the Siamese family of breeds, and can be found in various solid colors, and patterns such as smoke, shaded, parti-color/tortoiseshell,[6][7] tabby[7] and bicolor (any of the above, with white).[8] Not all variants are acceptable to all organizations that recognize the breed.
Conforming Oriental Shorthairs, like any of the Siamese type, have almond-shaped eyes and a wedge-shaped head with large ears. Their bodies are typically "sleek" but muscular.[6]
The long-haired version of the breed, the Oriental Longhair (recognized since 1995 by CFA[6]), simply carries a pair of the recessive long hair genes.
Oriental Shorthair cats have high locomotion levels and are natural conversationalists. The adult Oriental Shorthair cats are considered to be active, curious and interested about surroundings by breeders and veterinarians.[9]
The Oriental Shorthair is a medium size cat. On average, males weigh from 8–12 pounds (3.6–5.4 kg), with females weighing less than 8 pounds (3.6 kg).[10]
According to the CFA, "Orientals represent a diverse group of cats that have their foundation in the Siamese breed."[6] The Siamese, in both pointed and solid colors, was imported to the UK from Siam (today, Thailand) in the later half of the 1800s, and from there spread widely, becoming one of the most popular breeds. The gene that causes the color to be restricted to the points is a recessive gene; therefore, the general population of the cats of Siam were largely self-colored (solid). When the cats from Siam were bred, the pointed cats were eventually registered as Siamese, while the others were referred to as "non-blue eyed Siamese" or "foreign shorthair". Other breeds that were developed from the landrace cats of Thailand include the Havana Brown (which some breed registries classify as simply an Oriental Shorthair variant) and the Korat.[11]
The Oriental Shorthair was accepted as an actual breed for championship competition in the US-headquartered CFA in 1977.[6] In 1985, the CFA recognized the bicolor variant.[12] Two decades later, the breed was finally recognized by the UK-based Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF) in 1997, but with some differences from CFA on coat conformation.[7] GCCF publishes separate breed registration policies for a number of specific-coat Oriental Shorthair variants today.[8]  The Germany-based World Cat Federation (WCF) recognizes the breed, but with color requirements that are comparatively unrestrictive in some way, but notably opposed to white ("All colours and patterns without white and without points are recognized.")[13]
In the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA), some of the point-colored offspring from Oriental Shorthair parents are considered "any other variety" (AOV), but depending on the pedigree, some may compete as Colorpoints.[6] In The International Cat Association (TICA) and many other cat fancier and breeder associations, these cats are considered to be, and compete as, Siamese, when recognized at all.
In total, over 300 coat color and pattern combinations are possible under CFA conformation rules.[6]  The basic types include:
In scientific illustrator Jey Parks' 2017 book Star Trek Cats, Star Trek's Spock is depicted as an Oriental Shorthair.[14][15][16][17]
In Joann Sfar's comic The Rabbi's Cat, the eponymous cat has the physical features of an Oriental Shorthair.[citation needed]
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: CrisMC, Shutterstock
Last Updated on March 14, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Oriental Shorthair has been compared to actor Adam Driver (“Star Wars”) and Spock from “Star Trek”. When you see one, you can see why these comparisons have been made, but the Oriental Shorthair is so much more than a look-alike!
Height:
9–11 inches
Weight:
5–12 pounds
Lifespan:
12–15+ years
Colors:
Almost every color and pattern
Suitable for:
Families or singles with or without pets
Temperament:
Playful, active, affectionate, cuddly, intelligent, vocal, attention-seeking
Once you’ve seen an Oriental Shorthair, there’s no mistaking them for any other breed! Their body is slender and relatively angular in appearance. But they are especially famous for their enormous ears and prominent nose!
This breed is known for being active and energetic while also having an affectionate and loving nature. So, if you are considering getting an Oriental Shorthair, keep reading to find out if they will be a good fit for you.

An Oriental Shorthair cat is not the most common breed, so finding a reputable breeder might require traveling. Once you find someone suitable, have a conversation with them about your expectations and their breeding practices. You should ask them questions and basically interview them to ensure that they’re qualified.
Kittens should stay with their mothers and littermates until they are between 12 and 14 weeks old. During this time, they learn essential socialization skills that will help them adjust to their new home.
While adopting a cat is always a great option, Oriental Shorthair cats are not typically found in local animal shelters or rescue groups. Therefore, if you are interested in this particular breed, you might need to search for a breeder.
Oriental Shorthairs were developed in England in the 1950s, after breeders selectively bred Siamese cats with Russian Blues, British Shorthairs, Abyssinians, and regular domestic cats. They eventually found their way to North America in the ‘70s.
Oriental Longhair cats were also developed, and both breeds were awarded championship status by the Cat Fanciers Association in 1977. This is also when the various colors and patterns emerged. In fact, as each color was developed, they were named as a separate breed. For example, there was the Havana, Foreign White, and Oriental Spotted Tabby.
However, there were so many colors created, it became too cumbersome, so all non-pointed cats are now grouped under the Oriental Shorthair (or Longhair) category.

The Oriental Shorthair is considered the most intelligent of all breeds. They are outgoing and playful and love being the center of attention.
Due to their affectionate nature, they are often referred to as Velcro cats, as they tend to follow their favorite people around. One downside of this closeness is that they often suffer from separation anxiety, which means you can’t leave them alone for extended periods. They are also incredibly vocal cats, which is not surprising, considering their Siamese ancestry.
The Oriental Shorthair is an excellent choice for families looking for a pet. They are known for being highly active and playful, which makes them a perfect companion for children who enjoy spending time with a pet.
These cats bond closely with everyone in the family and enjoy snuggling up on warm laps for a cuddle. However, always teach your children how to interact appropriately with animals and to be gentle with them at all times.
With proper care and attention, the Oriental Shorthair can be a wonderful family companion.
The Oriental Shorthair is friendly toward other pets, particularly felines with a similar disposition. If you’re planning to adopt this breed, it may be beneficial to get two so they can keep each other company, as they are prone to separation anxiety.
This cat is also generally compatible with dogs, as long as the canine has a proven track record of getting along with felines.

You should aim for high-quality cat food, so chat with your vet about the best food for your Oriental Shorthair. There are so many cat food options to choose from!
💛 😺 Speak To a Vet Online From the Comfort of Your Couch!
If you need to speak with a vet but can’t get to one, head over to PangoVet. It’s an online service where you can talk to a vet online and get the personalized advice you need for your pet — all at an affordable price!
Click to Speak With a Vet
Feeding your cat at least twice a day is recommended, but some Oriental Shorthairs may require three meals a day. Additionally, ensure that your cat always has access to clean and fresh water. Consider purchasing a cat fountain to encourage your cat to drink more.
Cats generally get their exercise through play, though some cat owners love training their cats to be on a harness and leash so they can take them for meandering walks.
You’ll also need to provide enough interactive toys and teaser wands for one-on-one playtime. Catnip toys also tend to go over well! You may or may not want to try cat shelves, but you definitely need a cat tree so your pet can scratch, sleep, and play.
Some cats are not interested in being trained, but the Oriental Shorthair breed is an exception. They are highly intelligent and have a close connection with their owners, which makes them more responsive to learning new things. If you decide to train them, make sure only to use positive reinforcement.
Taking care of an Oriental Shorthair’s grooming needs is relatively easy. Their short coats only require brushing once a week to remove loose fur.  However, due to their notably large ears, you’ll need to check them weekly and clean them if necessary. Keeping their nails trimmed and providing a good scratching post is also essential.
Additionally, brushing your cat’s teeth is vital, but you can consider dental treats as additional oral care options.
The Oriental Shorthair is generally a healthy breed, but like all cats, they are prone to certain health conditions. Regular veterinary checkups and a well-balanced diet can help manage and prevent some of these health issues.
Minor Conditions
Serious Conditions

Oriental Shorthairs can reach 9 to 11 inches in height and weigh between 5 and 12 pounds. Typically, female cats tend to be smaller, weighing 5 to 8 pounds, while males are larger at 8 to 12 pounds.
There are a few general differences in behavior between male and female cats. The females are usually more independent and vocal, while the males tend to be more affectionate and calmer.
However, a cat’s temperament is primarily influenced by their genetics and the way that they are treated throughout their lives.

Since the Oriental Shorthair comes in practically every color and pattern (over 300 colors) available for felines, they have been called, “Ornamentals,” and, “Siamese in designer ‘genes.’”
Of course, there’s no such thing as a completely hypoallergenic cat, but the Oriental Shorthair does produce less of the allergen (Fel d 1 protein) responsible for causing human allergies. This should make them easier than other breeds to live with for allergy sufferers.
While these cats tend to be chatty like their Siamese cousins, some of them make a sound that’s been described as a honk or likened to a squeaky toy.

The Oriental Shorthair is a remarkable breed that is visually striking, highly intelligent, and affectionate. They make wonderful family pets and get along equally well with children and other animals. These cats are also known to greet visitors with great charm and curiosity.
While they may resemble a Vulcan and sometimes honk instead of meow, the Oriental Shorthair is a fun and sweet cat that could be the perfect feline companion for you!
Featured Image Credit: CrisMC, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Kathryn was a librarian in a previous lifetime and is currently a pet writer. When she was a child, she hoped to work in ZOOs or with wildlife in some way, thanks to her all-consuming love for animals. Sadly, she's not strong in the sciences, so she fills her days with researching and writing about all kinds of animals and spends time playing with her adorable but very naughty tabby cat, Bella. Kathryn is hoping to add to her family in the near future – maybe another cat and a dog.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The Oriental Shorthair cat breed is known for their sleek and elegant appearance. Sharing similar ancestry, they closely resemble the Siamese cat. With a long, slender body, large ears, and almond-shaped eyes, Oriental cats exude a sense of grace and sophistication. They come in a variety of colors and patterns, including solid, tabby, and bicolor. These feline companions are sociable and intelligent, forming strong bonds with their human families. They are also vocal and enjoy communicating with their owners. Their playful and active nature makes them well-suited for interactive games and activities, and they often appreciate being the center of attention.
Oriental Shorthair cats share many characteristics with the Siamese breed, including a short, fine coat that lies close to their body. Their coat requires minimal grooming, making them relatively low-maintenance in terms of grooming needs. The Oriental cat is a perfect choice for individuals or families seeking a loving and interactive companion with an unmistakable sense of style.
When considering an Oriental Shorthair kitten, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Oriental Shorthair kitten breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
The Oriental is best described as a color remake of the original “black and white” Siamese. The breed was developed using Siamese as the foundation breed and then crossing them with other breeds. The original intent was to broaden the Siamese gene pool in Britain because so many breeding programs had been devastated during World War II.
Crosses with Russian Blues, British Shorthairs, Abyssinians and domestic shorthairs produced kittens without the pointed Siamese pattern, which were then bred back to Siamese. In just a few generations, breeders produced cats that looked exactly like Siamese, except for the variety of colors and patterns they displayed, as well as cats with the traditional pointed pattern.
Cats with Siamese points were used in Siamese breeding programs, but the non-pointed cats became the basis for a new breed: the Oriental. When the cats began to be imported into the United States in the 1970s, crosses with American Shorthairs produced yet more colors and patterns. A longhaired variety was also developed. Today Orientals come in more than 300 colors and patterns, including pointed varieties. Pointed Orientals are not accepted by all cat associations, and some require them to be shown as Siamese.
Orientals are medium-size cats that typically weigh 5 to 10 pounds.
The Siamese and the Oriental might differ in color, but beneath the skin they are identical. The Oriental is talkative and opinionated. He will tell you exactly what he thinks, in a loud, raspy voice, and he expects you to pay attention and act on his advice. Orientals are extremely fond of their people. They like to be “helpful” and will follow you around and supervise your every move. When you are sitting down, an Oriental will be in your lap, and at night he will be in bed with you, probably under the covers with his head on the pillow. Do not get an Oriental if living with a chatty busybody would drive you insane.
On the other hand, if you enjoy having someone to talk to throughout the day, an Oriental can be your best friend. Just be sure you have time to spend with this demanding and social cat. Orientals do not like being left alone for long periods, and if you work during the day it can be smart to get two of them so they can keep each other company.
The Oriental is highly intelligent, agile and athletic, and loves to play. Keep his busy brain active with puzzle toys and his body exercised with teaser toys that he can chase and a big cat tree he can climb. He is fully capable of opening doors and drawers or rifling through your purse in search of something interesting or shiny to play with. Never leave him without any form of entertainment, or you will likely come home to find that he has reprogrammed your DVR to record only nature shows or at the very least decided that your toilet paper rolls and tissue boxes look better empty.
Choose an Oriental if you look forward to spending time with and interacting with your cat. This is a loyal and loving feline who will pout and pine if given little or no attention. In the right home, however, he thrives for years.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. The same problems that may affect the Siamese can also affect the Oriental, including the following:

The short, fine coat of the Oriental Shorthair is easily cared for. Comb it every couple of weeks with a stainless steel comb or soft bristle brush to remove dead hair, then polish it with a soft cloth to make it shine. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing.
Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection. Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the Oriental’s litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene. It’s a good idea to keep an Oriental as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Orientals who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
Except for color, the Siamese and the Oriental are indistinguishable, having a svelte but muscular body with long lines and a wedge-shaped head that is long and tapering from the narrow point of the nose outward to the tips of the ears, forming a triangle. The unusually large ears are wide at the base and pointed at the tip, giving them the same triangular shape as the head. Medium-size eyes are almond-shaped.
The body is often described as tubular and is supported by long, slim legs, with the hind legs higher than the front legs. The Oriental walks on small, dainty, oval paws and swishes a long, thin tail that tapers to a fine point. Oriental Longhairs have a medium-length coat that is fine and silky. It is longest on the plumed tail.
Often nicknamed “Ornamentals” because of their extensive color palette, Orientals come in more colors and patterns than any other breed, including solid, shaded, smoke, parti-color, bi-color and tabby. Depending on the coat color, the eyes may be blue, green, or odd (one blue and one green).
The active and social Oriental is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He will play fetch as well as any retriever, learns tricks easily and loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect. He gets along with cats and dogs who respect his authority. Always introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.

If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!








Share article
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your cat's connection to this breed and 20 others
Oriental Shorthairs are fun, talkative, and affectionate kitties who love to hang out with their favorite humans. These long and lean athletes are always on the go, and require a lot of attention if you don’t want them getting into mischief on their own!
A close relative of the Siamese, the Oriental Shorthair maintains the same head and body type of its parent breed, but sports various coat colors and patterns including smoke, shaded, tortoiseshell, tabby, and bicolor. In fact, over 750 color and pattern combinations are possible under the Cat Fanciers’ Association conformation rules. Oriental Shorthairs are lean, muscular, and agile with very large ears that are pointed like the modern Siamese. In contrast to the deep blue eye color of the Siamese, the Oriental Shorthair has almond-shaped eyes that come in beautiful shades of green. The Oriental Longhair, which simply carries a pair of recessive long hair genes, is a variety of this breed.
It is believed that the Oriental Shorthair has its foundation in the Siamese breed. The Siamese are the royal cats of Thailand (previously Siam), that were ﬁrst brought to England in the 1800s. During World War II, many breeding programs were devastated, and the Siamese was crossbred with Russian Blues, British Shorthairs, Abyssinians, and Domestic Shorthairs to expand the gene pool. Kittens born with Siamese points were rotated back into Siamese breeding programs, while the non-pointed kittens became the basis for the Oriental Shorthair breed.
The Oriental Shorthair is said to closely resemble the Siamese in personality. They are agile and athletic and known as highly skilled jumpers. They are playful and social cats who also love to snuggle and take naps on your lap. They are quite vocal and aren't shy about demanding the attention they so rightfully deserve. They are known to do well with other cat and dog friends, as they desire a lot of stimulation and companionship.
Since it is derived from the Siamese, the Oriental Shorthair is at a higher risk for developing health problems such as neoplastic and gastrointestinal disorders, crossed eyes, lung infections, feline OCD, vestibular disease, Feline Hyperesthesia Syndrome, and diabetes mellitus. Siamese-derived breeds are also noted to have higher mortality rates compared to other cat breeds. However, Oriental Shorthairs are noted for their longer lifespan, often living 15 years or more.
The Ornamental cat coat. This breed comes in nearly 300 different coat and pattern combinations–stripes, spots, solid colors, you name it! Whichever color and pattern you think of,  the Oriental Shorthair has it. This gave rise to their nickname, “Ornaments”.
They may be the smartest cat breed out there. The Oriental Shorthair is thought to be one of the most intelligent cat breeds out there, if not the most intelligent. They are highly trainable because they are very curious and love interaction and stimulation.
They get very attached to people, very quickly. Oriental Shorthairs are ready to bond with their family. This is why it's important to socialize them very early, and to provide them with as much quality time as possible.
They are born entertainers. Much like their Siamese parent breed, the Oriental Shorthair are very talkative and fun-seeking. They will continuously search for adventure, and they will never fail to entertain you in new and interesting ways!
The International Cat Association (TICA) “Introduction to the Oriental Shorthair”
Cat Fanciers' Association "About the Oriental"
FETCH by WebMD "What to Know About an Oriental Cat"
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
