1. Customise the link
Link text:    - Preview:  Link
2. How to use this code: This link cantains your affiliate code and can be placed anywhere a normal <a> tag could be placed.
The Oriental Tabby is a variation on the Oriental breed and they share the same history. If you want to read the full history of the Oriental breed click here.
To read about the Oriental behaviour click here.
Spotted, classic and mackerel tabby patterns.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Alex Zotov, Shutterstock
Last Updated on March 12, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click to Skip Ahead
Knowing that Tabby is a color pattern and not a breed, many cat owners ask, “What breed is my Tabby?” Below, we’ll discuss the methods you can use to figure it out!

Before determining what breed of cat your Tabby is, it’s helpful to know about the Tabby patterns. There are five of them, including:
Often called a “blotched” Tabby, the classic pattern consists of whorls resembling targets. And, of course, most Tabbies have the unmistakable “M” marking on their forehead.
Rings on their legs and tails, plus stripes covering the rest of the cat’s body, are the signs of a mackerel Tabby.
This Tabby type, often called tortoiseshell, is made when a cat has patches of red and orange along with the Tabby pattern.
Various sizes and bands of spots identify this type of Tabby. Some can be broken, making the spotted Tabby look similar to the mackerel Tabby.
A lack of noticeable bands and stripes set this Tabby type apart, but you can still see bands of light and dark coloring on their hair, called “ticking.”

As we’ve seen, many breeds can be Tabby cats. The methods you can use to determine the breed of your cat look beyond the Tabby pattern and focus on other traits seen in particular breeds.
Size is one of the easiest ways to determine the breed of cat. That’s because there are only three main sizes of cats, including dwarf, medium, and large. If your Tabby is exceptionally small, they might be a Balinese or Singapura. Medium-sized Tabbies can be Abyssinian, Oriental, and several others. If your Tabby is large, they could be a Maine Coon, Savannah, or Siberian cat.
There are four types of cat hair: long, short, curly, and hairless. Surprisingly, a Sphinx cat, which is hairless, can still be a Tabby cat since the markings that make a cat a Tabby will be seen on their skin!
A Persian, Ragdoll, or Himalayan can also be a Tabby. The American Shorthair cat tells you the length of their coat in their name and can be a Tabby cat, and the Abyssinian can also be a Tabby with medium-length hair.
Cats can possess three types of ear features: ear tufts, folded ears, and curled ears. The American Curl, not surprisingly, is one curled breed that can be a Tabby, and the Scottish Fold, with their folded ears, can also have the Tabby pattern. If your Tabby cat has tufted ears, they could be a Maine Coon, Ragdoll, or American Lynx, among others.
Although this method of determining the breed of your Tabby cat isn’t the easiest, it can provide clues. This is especially true if your Tabby cat has a flat face, like a Persian, or a narrow face, like a Cornish Rex.
Another method of determining your Tabby’s breed is to look at their tail, but, like the shape of a cat’s face, this one is also rather difficult. The American Bobtail cat can be a Tabby, and the Manx with their short tail can also be. Besides the length, however, determining the breed of a cat by their tail alone isn’t the most accurate method as they all look similar.
Using your cat’s manners and character to tell their breed is probably the most challenging method. The reason is that, like people, all cats are unique individuals with unique mannerisms and characters. However, if your Tabby cat is shy and non-aggressive, they could be a Persian, Ragdoll, or British Shorthair. An affectionate Tabby that seeks out human contact could be a Korat or Devon Rex.

We’ve discussed visual markers to determine your Tabby’s breed, so let’s look at some tools you can use to do the same.
Several apps can help you determine your Tabby’s breed, including Cat Scanner.
You’ll find many quizzes online to help you determine your Tabby cat’s breed. You should note, however, that they aren’t scientific and rely primarily on anecdotal evidence.
DNA testing is one of the best tools to determine your Tabby’s breed. Several companies perform the testing and let you know your cat’s breed and overall health.
One of the most accurate methods of determining your Tabby’s breed is asking your veterinarian. They have years of experience and training that can come in handy when you want to know your Tabby’s specific breed.

Almost all genetic lines of domesticated cats can come in the Tabby pattern, making it difficult to determine their exact breed. We hope the information in this article will help you determine your Tabby’s lineage and give you insight into their personality and heritage. Regardless of their breed, if you have a Tabby cat you adore, their breed might not matter to you. Best of luck discovering the breed of your beloved feline!
See Also:
How Big Do Tabby Cats Get?
Featured Image Credit: Alex Zotov, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
VET PROFESSIONALSWhere To Buy Sign Up
VET PROFESSIONALSWhere To Buy Sign Up
Pet Care Centre
A beautiful cat, the Oriental is also highly intelligent and requires a parent who will return this breed’s trademark dedication.
The Oriental is a cat of extremes with a long head, tall ears and long, slender legs.
Male: medium: 8-12 lbs. Female: small: <8 lbs.
Blue, Green, Odd-eyed
Longevity Range: 8-12 yrs. Social/Attention Needs: Moderate Tendency to Shed: Moderate, High

Length: Medium Characteristics: Smooth, Straight Colors: White, Blue, Ebony, Cream, Red, Brown, Frost, Platinum, Fawn, Chocolate, Chestnut, Cinnamon, Lavender, Champagne, Seal Pattern: Solid Color, Tortoiseshell, Bicolor, Tricolor/Calico, Tabby, Ticking, Smoke, Shaded, Points Less Allergenic: No Overall Grooming Needs: Moderate, High
Cat Association Recognition: CFA, ACFA , FIFe, TICA Prevalence: Rare
The Oriental is a long, elegant cat. The body, neck, legs and tail are long. She is medium sized but nicely muscled.
The Oriental is a cat of extremes. The head is a long triangle. The tall ears are set to be a continuation of this triangle. The nose is long and straight. The legs are long and slender. The tail is long and tapers to a point. The eyes are almond shape and are usually a bright green. White Orientals may have blue, green, or odd eyes. The pointed Oriental has blue eyes.
The Oriental shorthair coat is short, glossy and lies close to the body. The longhair variant has a medium length coat rather than a full, flowing coat.
The Oriental cat is not only beautiful but also is highly intelligent. She can be trained to walk on a lead. This does not mean, however, that she can be trained to do everything you might wish. Like most other highly intelligent breeds, the Oriental has her own desires.
The Oriental is an affectionate cat and requires her parent to be as dedicated to her as she is to her parent. The parent must be affectionate to the Oriental and must spend some time spent playing with her.
Parents can tell when the Oriental gains weight. Oriental cats show a pot belly even after indulging in one day of over eating. The nutrition must be carefully controlled for this breed. The long, slim legs are not made to hold a fat body.
Orientals are great jumpers and love heights. For this reason, perches and cat trees should be provided. Oriental cats love to play and appreciate toys around the house for their pleasure. While the coat needs little care, the Oriental Shorthair associates brushing with affection and will enjoy being groomed.
As elegant as the Oriental looks, she can be quite a lap cat. She is extremely affectionate and will sleep next to her parent in bed.
In the 1910s and 1920s in Britain, the Siamese cat was extremely popular. Part of the attraction was the unusual color restriction or pointing. Because of this coloring, breeders determined that all solid colors should be excluded from this breed. The name "foreign shorthair" was given to the first solid color Siamese cats. These cats, which had a myriad of colors and patterns, are now known under the breed name Oriental.
The Oriental is essentially a Siamese cat with a different coat color. A breeding program of Orientals may produce some cats that carry the color restricted pattern of the Siamese, but they are still considered Orientals.
Over time Orientals produced some longhair kittens. These are now recognized as a separate breed called the Oriental longhair. The Oriental longhairs are much less common than are Orientals with short hair.
Australia [English] (opens a modal dialog)
FacebookInstagramYoutube
© 2023 Hill's Pet Nutrition, Inc. All rights reserved. Unless specifically stated otherwise, use of the trademark symbol within this site designates trademarks owned by Hill's Pet Nutrition, Inc. Your use of this site is subject to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Your use of this site is subject to the terms of our Legal Statement. Cookie Consent Tool
--------------------------------------------------
Subscribe To This Site

History
The Oriental cat breeds are a man-made and originated in England in the 1950’s.
After World War II the number of breeding cats and breeders were reduced causing
the remaining breeders to become creative to rebuild Oriental cat breeding programs.
Many of the moderns Oriental breeds originated from cross-breeding done during that
time.
One of these breeds is the Oriental Longhair and the Oriental Shorthair. Siamese
cats were crossed with British Shorthairs, Abyssinians and Russian Blues. The cats
from these cross-breeding were not pointed and were subsequently crossed back to
Siamese. What was surprising was that in only a few generations, these cats were
indistinguishable from Siamese cats in every way except color.
Female Shorthair black tabby/spotted white Oriental cat - photo by Kamée
The Siamese pointed color is genetically recessive and pointed kittens were produced.
The best of the Siamese colored cats that resulted from these crosses were used
to enlarge and strengthen the Siamese gene pool. The non-pointed cats were the ancestors
of the modern day Oriental cat breed.
In the initial stages, each color was named and developed as a separate breed –
Havana (chocolate), Foreign White and the Oriental Spotted Tabby. However, it soon
became apparent that there were too many colors and all the non-pointed cats were
grouped into one breed – the Oriental Longhair and the Oriental Shorthair.
In the 1970’s Orientals were being imported into the USA and new crosses between
American Shorthairs created even more colors.
Description
Oriental Shorthair Cat
The Oriental cat is elegant, slender and graceful. They are not large cats but rather
long and tall.
Oriental cats (both shorthair and longhair) have a fine bone structure and a long,
sleek, slender body. The legs and tail are long and slender.
This is a muscular cat breed that should be neither bony nor fat.
The head and neck is extraordinarily long. The head of all the members of the Siamese
group should have a straight profile (side view) and the chin should line up with
the nose.
Oriental Longhair Cat
The front view of the head is triangular.
The head itself is wedge-shaped with a fine muzzle. The ears are strikingly large
and wide with the eyes almond-shaped and set at an angle. The preferred eye-color
is green.
Oriental cats are easy to groom. A weekly brushing is all that is required to remove
loose hair and to keep the coat in its natural glossy condition.
Personality & Temperament
The Oriental cat breed is an intelligent, lively and sociable breed. These beautiful
cats are devoted to their humans and need constant companionship. You should consider
getting another Oriental if you plan on leaving your cat alone for long periods
of time. This is truly a cat breed that does not do well on its own.
Some Orientals bond very closely with only one person and will avoid other members
of the family and even visitors. They are lap cats that enjoy curling up on your
lap, purring like a locomotive.
An Oriental cat is the perfect cat for someone who wants a cat that talks and interacts
on every level of your daily life.
This
cat breed simply loves to play and the more you interact with games, the more new
games you will have to invent.
They are happy with any kind of toy – be it a mouse, a piece of crumpled up
paper or even just a ball of string.
Be warned – anything and everything will be turned into a toy, so if you have any
valuable ornaments around, make sure they are firmly grounded!
Return to Different
Cat Breeds from The Oriental Cat Breeds
Return to Home Page
--------------------------------------------------
Welcome to Oriental Breeders
The Oriental Tabby kitten is a captivating feline breed known for its distinctive appearance, graceful demeanor, and affectionate nature. In this article, we will delve into the characteristics, care, and allure of these enchanting kittens.
Oriental Tabby kittens belong to the larger family of Oriental cats. They are characterized by their sleek bodies, almond-shaped eyes, and distinctive coat patterns. The ‘tabby’ pattern refers to the beautiful swirls, stripes, or spots that adorn their fur, adding to their allure.
One of the most striking features of an Oriental Tabby kitten is its elegant physique. These cats have long, slender bodies, making them appear almost like miniature panthers. Their almond-shaped eyes, set at a slight slant, exude an aura of mystique.
The coat of an Oriental Tabby is a canvas of artistry. The tabby pattern can be in various forms, including classic, mackerel, or spotted. Classic tabbies boast a marbled swirl pattern, mackerel tabbies have distinct vertical stripes, while spotted tabbies flaunt delightful spots along their back and sides.
Beyond their physical charm, Oriental Tabby kittens are known for their engaging personalities. They are intelligent, curious, and highly social creatures. These felines thrive on human interaction and are known to form strong bonds with their owners.
Oriental Tabby kittens are vocal and expressive, often engaging in conversations with their human companions. They are playful and active, enjoying interactive toys and games that challenge their agile minds.
Caring for an Oriental Tabby kitten involves providing a stimulating environment that caters to their active nature. Regular playtime and interactive toys are essential to keep them mentally and physically engaged.
Their sleek coat requires minimal grooming, but a weekly brush will help keep it in top condition and reduce shedding. Additionally, regular check-ups with a veterinarian are crucial to ensure their overall health and well-being.
When seeking an Oriental Tabby kitten, consider adopting from reputable breeders or rescue organizations. Ensure that the kitten has been raised in a nurturing environment and has received proper veterinary care.
Oriental Tabby kittens are a captivating blend of elegance, intelligence, and affection. Their striking appearance and engaging personalities make them cherished companions for those who appreciate their unique charm. By understanding their characteristics and providing proper care, you can embark on a wonderful journey with your Oriental Tabby kitten, creating cherished memories for years to come.
Copyright © 2023 Oriental Kitten Breeders
Web design by Urielworks
--------------------------------------------------
