LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Planning on owning a Pekingese and wandering if Pekingeses are safe with cats?
Find out all about Pekingese cat friendliness and how to make your Pekingese friendlier with kittens on this page.



A typical misconception a lot of people make is believing that all pet dogs hate cats and vice versa. This isn’t real and there are plenty of pet dog breeds that are great with cats. Pet dogs that aren’t naturally feline friendly can likewise be trained to be safer around cats.
According to experienced Pekingese dog experts, Pekingese dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of how friendly they are with cats.



Regardless of the misunderstanding, a lot of canines and cats can cohabit peacefully. Follow these easy to follow steps to find out how to best introduce your Pekingese with a cat.


Not all Pekingeses don’t like felines, some get along with them. When Pekingeses do hate felines, of the most common reason is quite straightforward. Like all canines, Pekingeses still keep a few of the hunting behavioral instincts that they were initially reproduced for. This is why Pekingeses like chasing after all moving things, whether it’s a toy, rodent, or a cat.
Given that most felines will escape when they come across, it’s easy to see why they are known for not getting along with each other. Pekingeses in fact delight in chasing after felines not because they hate them, but generally because a fast running animal sets off a powerful, natural behavioral instinct to chase after overcomes any training or socialisation.


Educating your Pekingese to quit chasing after felines requires time, practice and consistency, however the benefit of not having to worry about them constantly chasing after is very well worth it. Here are the procedures of how to stop your Pekingese from going after cats.


The best method to ensure your Pekingese would never kill a cat is to raise them with cats when they’re a puppy before 3 months old. At this age, they will usually wish to play with the felines and won’t see them as prey.
If your Pekingese has actually eliminated a feline before, its optimal if you keep them in an open, fenced off space. When taking them for strolls try to avoid going after dusk and prior to dawn since that’s when felines are very active and most likely to be wandering the neighborhoods.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
The compatibility of Pekingese dogs with cats is a topic that often comes up among pet owners looking to introduce a new pet into their homes. While it’s common to assume that dogs and cats are natural adversaries, this is not always the case. In fact, many dog breeds, including Pekingese, can coexist peacefully with feline companions. They are known to be affectionate and playful, traits that can play a significant role in building a harmonious relationship between the two species. It’s important to understand the individual personalities of the pets involved as well as the specific breed characteristics that may influence their interaction.
When considering whether Pekingese dogs get along with cats, one should take into account their history and temperament. Pekingese were bred as companion animals for Chinese royalty, and their sociable nature often extends to other animals when socialized properly. They possess a moderate prey drive compared to hunting dog breeds, which can be a favorable factor for cohabitation with cats. However, without proper introduction and training, a Pekingese might still chase or become aggressive toward a cat, as would be common with many other breeds when not properly acclimated.
Factors that can influence the Pekingese-cat relationship include the individual Pekingese’s temperament, the cat’s personality, and the environment they are in. If both the cat and Pekingese have mild-mannered dispositions and are introduced carefully, there is a greater likelihood they will get along. Additionally, an environment that offers separate spaces and plenty of stimuli can reduce potential conflicts. With patience and appropriate training, Pekingese and cats can not only coexist but also form strong, affectionate bonds.

In exploring the Pekingese’s capability to interact with cats, it’s essential to understand their temperament influenced by their historical background, their social behaviors, and their adaptability to family life including children and other pets.
The Pekingese breed has a storied past that stretches back to the T’ang Dynasty of China, where they were cherished by royalty and often referred to as the “lion dog.” These dogs were symbols of regal splendor and affection, and their dignified conduct today still hints at their aristocratic heritage.
Characteristically, Pekingese are known for being loyal, intelligent, and somewhat opinionated, which can sometimes translate into stubbornness during training sessions. They exhibit a spirited independence but can also display deep affection towards their owners, often developing a loyal bond.
When it comes to living with cats, Pekingese can coexist peacefully, especially if they are socialized with them from a young age. However, being consistent and gentle during the introduction process is crucial, as Pekingese may exhibit a chase instinct if a cat displays prey-like behavior due to stress or fear.
Respecting a Pekingese’s personal space is vital, particularly around children who may unintentionally impose on the dog’s sense of comfort. Similarly, while they can be a good family dog, careful introductions are recommended when they’re meeting other pets to minimize potential conflicts. Pekingese require daily exercise, but due to potential health issues such as breathing problems or overheating, moderation is key.
--------------------------------------------------
The Pekingese (also spelled Pekinese) is a breed of toy dog, originating in China. The breed was favored by royalty of the Chinese Imperial court as a companion dog, and its name refers to the city of Beijing (Peking) where the Forbidden City is located.[1] The breed has several characteristics and health issues related to its unique appearance. Because of its desirable characteristics, the Pekingese has been part of the development of designer crossbreeds, such as the Peekapoo (crossed with a poodle) and Peke-a-tese (crossed with a Maltese).[2]
Modern breeders and dog show judges seem to prefer the long-haired type over the more traditional spaniel-type coat.[3]
The Pekingese's flat face and large eyes are some of the breed's most obvious characteristics. The body is compact and low to the ground. Pekingese also have a muscular and durable body.[1] The breed's unusual rolling gait may have been deliberately developed through selective breeding, to prevent the court dogs from wandering in ancient times.[citation needed]
Breed standards allow a wide range of color combinations.[3] The majority of Pekingese are gold, red or sable. Cream, black, white, tan, black-and-tan and occasionally 'blue' or slate grey have appeared in the breed. The latter often has poor pigment and light eyes. Albino Pekingese (white with pink eyes) should not be bred due to health problems associated with albinism.[citation needed]
A black mask or a self-colored face is equally acceptable in show dogs. Regardless of coat color, the exposed skin of the muzzle, nose, lips and eye rims is black.[3] Due to heavy shedding and to prevent mats, this double-coated breed requires frequent extensive grooming.
Pekingese weigh from 7 to 14 lb (3.2 to 6.4 kg) and stand about 6–9 inches (15–23 cm) at the withers; however, they can be smaller. These smaller Pekingese are commonly referred to as "sleeve" Pekingese or just "sleeves". The name is taken from ancient times, when emperors would carry the smallest of the breed in their sleeves.[citation needed] A Pekingese over 14 lbs. is disqualified in the show ring.[3]
The Pekingese is slightly longer than tall when measured from the forechest to the rear. The overall outline is an approximate ratio of 3 high to 5 long.
A 2024 UK study found a life expectancy of 13.3 years for the breed compared to an average of 12.7 for purebreds and 12 for crossbreeds.[4]
The leading cause of death for Pekingese, as for many other Toy breeds, is trauma.[5] Primary health concerns include neurological and cardiovascular defects,[5]
As a result of breeding for an increasingly flattened face, its brachycephaly can lead to health issues in some Pekingese. Therefore other potential concerns in the breed are eye issues and breathing problems, resulting from its tiny skull and flattened face. Furthermore, skin allergies (including hotspots) and eye ulcers may develop spontaneously. Pekingese may also develop keratoconjunctivitis sicca (dry eye) and progressive retinal atrophy.[6][verification needed]
In an effort to address potential breathing difficulties caused by the breed's flat face, the Kennel Club (UK) significantly changed the breed standard in October 2008, removing the clause that the "profile [should be] flat with nose well up between eyes" and adding instead that the "muzzle must be evident". This was in response to public opinion following the BBC programme Pedigree Dogs Exposed.[citation needed]
Keeping the Pekingese coat healthy and presentable requires daily brushing and a trip to the groomer every 8–12 weeks. Dogs intended as a house pet may be kept in a puppy cut, which requires less maintenance than a show coat. It is important to remove foreign materials from the eyes daily, and clean the creases on the face to prevent sores (hot spots). It is also necessary to keep and maintain the long fur in the rear end (aka the "trousers" or "skirt") clean and well-groomed, as the area is prone to soiling. In cold climates, the trousers may accumulate clumps of snowballs.
Due to their abundance of fur, it is important to keep the Pekingese cool. The breed is prone to have heatstroke when exposed to high temperatures.[7]
Pekingese exercise needs are minimal. Due to their extremely short snouts, they are at a higher risk for breathing difficulties (most notably brachycephalic obstructed airway syndrome).[8] Because of this, they are rarely capable of more than 30 minutes of exercise per day. It is important to monitor their breathing while exercising, especially if in the heat. If the Pekingese begins wheezing, exercise should cease immediately. After running, they should rest in a cool place until their breathing returns to normal. They must have access to plenty of water before, during, and after exercise to prevent overheating and dehydration.
The breed emerged in China from several kinds of small dog owned by aristocratic families. Unlike the others, it could only be owned by members of the Chinese Imperial Palace.[9]
During the Second Opium War, in 1860, the Old Summer Palace in Beijing was sacked and set ablaze by a combined Anglo-French expeditionary force, after the Xianfeng Emperor had fled with all of his court members to Chengde.
A British soldier, Captain John Hart Dunne came across a lone Pekingese, which he brought back to England. It was the first of the breed to survive the voyage.[9] He presented her to Queen Victoria, who named it Looty.[10][11][12]
It is often said that during the sack of the palace grounds, a contingent of British and French troops entered one of the palaces. An elderly aunt of the emperor had remained behind, but when the troops entered the palace she committed suicide. She was found dead with five Pekingese beside her body. They were taken by the troops before the Summer Palace was burnt to the ground.[citation needed] Lord John Hay took a pair, later called Schloff and Hytien, and gave them to his sister, the Duchess of Wellington, wife of Henry Wellesley, 3rd Duke of Wellington. Sir George Fitzroy took another pair, and gave them to his cousins, the Duke and Duchess of Richmond and Gordon. The fifth was the one found by captain Dunne. However the tale has no support from contemporary documents, while both Hay and Fitzroy may well have acquired pekes from some source, they were serving Naval officers expected to stay with their ships guarding the entrance to Beijing.[13]
The Empress Dowager Cixi presented Pekingese to several Americans, including John Pierpont Morgan and Alice Lee Roosevelt Longworth, daughter of Theodore Roosevelt, who named it Manchu.
The first Pekingese in Ireland was introduced by Dr. Heuston. He established smallpox vaccination clinics in China. The effect was dramatic. In gratitude, the Chinese minister, Li Hongzhang presented him with a pair of Pekingese. They were named Chang and Lady Li. Dr. Heuston founded the Greystones kennel.[11]
Around the turn of the century, Pekingese dogs became popular in Western countries. They were owned by such arbiters of fashion as Alexandra of Denmark, wife of Edward VII, and Elsie de Wolfe, popular American interior decorator. Later, they were owned by Rumer Godden, who wrote in her autobiography that "I do not like dogs except very large ones and one or two with such character that they cannot be denied; Pekingese are not dogs but something more"[14] and by Auberon Waugh, who on one occasion fancifully boasted that one of his dogs shared his love of The Daily Telegraph and hatred for The Sunday Times.[15]
A 2018 Country Life article asserted that the breed's "perceived desirability has plummeted, eclipsed entirely by that of the shih tzu".[16] The Kennel Club also states that "their popularity has declined".[17] However, in 2021 a Pekingese named Wasabi won the Westminster dog show, the fourth time a Pekingese won Best in Show at Westminster.[18]
According to the 1948 publication Dogs In Britain, A Description of All Native Breeds and Most Foreign Breeds in Britain by Clifford LB Hubbard, the Sleeve Pekingese is a true miniature of the standard-sized dog, and was also known as the Miniature Pekingese. The name Sleeve Pekingese came from the custom of carrying these small dogs in the capacious sleeves of the robes worn by members of the Chinese Imperial Household. They were used as a defensive weapon if needed.  Hubbard indicated that this tradition appeared to be early Italian rather than Chinese, but its adoption by the Chinese Imperial Household led to dogs being bred as small as possible and to practices aimed at stunting their growth: giving puppies rice wine, holding newborns tightly for hours at a time or putting the puppies into tight-fitting wire mesh waistcoats. These practices were apparently forbidden by Dowager Empress Cixi.
In Hubbard's time, the term Sleeve was applied in Britain to a miniature Pekingese no more than 6–7 pounds in weight, often appearing to be only about 3–4 pounds. Mrs Flander's Mai Mai weighed only a little over 4 pounds and many other breeders had bred true miniatures of a similar size. He noted that miniatures may appear in a litter bred from full-sized Pekingese and were exhibited in classes for dogs less than 7 pounds at the major dog shows in Britain. In 1946 (when Hubbard wrote his book), the Sleeve Pekingese had a strong following with the most popular colours being cream and white, with white being considered particularly attractive. He illustrated the description with a white Sleeve Pekingese bred by Mrs Aileen Adam.[19]
There are two origin stories for the Pekingese.[9] The more common one is The Lion and the Marmoset:
The other originating story is The Butterfly Lions:
--------------------------------------------------
Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share
Height:
6–9 inches
Weight:
7–14 pounds
Lifespan:
12–15 years
Colors:
White, black, grey, cream, fawn
Suitable for:
Seniors, families with grown children, those looking for a loyal companion
Temperament:
Originally, the Pekingese were bred as a companion to the Chinese imperial family. They would accompany their humans everywhere, and this is still evident in today’s Peke.
The breed is considered suitable for novice owners, as well as experienced, although they can prove difficult to train because of their stubbornness and incredible level of self-importance. This can be improved if they know there’s a treat in it for them. They adapt to life in an apartment, and require minimal exercise, but they do have a tendency to yap, especially when left and when feeling intimidated or threatened. This can make them unsuitable for those with neighbors in close proximity.
As a loyal companion dog, the Pekinese will bond closely with their humans, and will usually form a very strong link with one human owner. Although a well-socialized Peke will get on with everybody they meet, they may show indifference to those outside their family unit. The Peke does not respond well to being pulled and prodded, and they may nip at small children that treat them in this way, so care should be taken around very young kids.

Pekingese are popular as show dogs, as well as companions for seniors and some families. The popularity of the breed means that there is a decent number of breeders, and the dog’s size means that a single breeder will usually have multiple parent dogs. However, you need to take care to ensure that you find a reputable and trustworthy breeder that breeds compassionately and carefully.
Always vet breeders—don’t simply assume that they are legitimate. Where possible, look for those that are recommended by national kennel clubs or the official dog clubs. These breeders must meet certain criteria, including having the parent dogs checked for certain common conditions and limiting the number of litters that a single dog can produce each season. In contrast, unrecognized breeders are unlikely to be able to show you screening results or certificates.
The Peke’s propensity to bark, and their status as a companion to seniors, means that they can be found in shelters. Adopting can be very rewarding, but you should first identify the reason for the dog’s adoption. Meet with the dog, and ensure that he is friendly and responsive. Although this breed is known for getting along with cats and other small dogs, they may be wary around larger dogs and strangers, so meeting them gives you the opportunity to size them up.
Pekingese were originally bred as companions for royalty. They would accompany members of the imperial families of China. They held positions of honor. Even when they were brought to the West, they were first introduced to Queen Victoria, who adopted them.
Although the breed is very small, they can make excellent guard dogs. They won’t be able to take intruders down on their own, but they are vocal little dogs that are wary of strangers. This means that they will bark at anybody they do not recognize as they approach.
While this can sometimes cause problems with the neighbors, it will deter a lot of trespassers, who are looking for an easy target. What’s more, what this breed lacks in size, they more than makeup for in bravery, and most will fight to the death to protect their owner. In Ancient China, the breed was kept in the sleeves of royal family members and would bark to protect their owners.
The breed is considered a good one for novice owners, but they are actually quite difficult to maintain thanks to their high grooming requirements. Their coat is long and needs to be brushed several times a week to prevent it from becoming matted and knotted. They will also require the occasional bath because dirt and grime show up easily on their coat. Many owners also choose to trim the hair above their eyes so that they can see comfortably and keep themselves cool.
The Pekingese can live comfortably in cold climates but does not fare well in hot climates, hence the need to trim their fringe and potentially even provide a source of cool air during the summer months. They also shed, and while regular brushing will help remove a lot of the dead hair before it settles on furniture and the floor, there will inevitably be some runoff.


The Pekingese is a very proud breed. They come from royalty and they really do seem to have remembered their regal status. They are also considered very intelligent dogs and are quite wary and suspicious because of this. However, while they are intelligent, they are not necessarily easy to train, unless they want to be.
The Peke will form strong bonds with his family and will form one especially close bond, typically with the person who feeds them and cares for them. They will get on with all members of the family, but the Pekinese is not the best breed for small children. They will not react well to being poked and prodded and may nip in defense if this happens. It can also lead to stress and anxiety for the dog.
The Pekinese is generally very happy with any dog of a similar size and will want to make friends with cats, possibly because of their similar size. They will not usually try and chase smaller animals, although introducing the Peke to any other family animal at a young age is ideal.

The Pekinese can make a great family pet with grown-up children and is ideal as a companion for singles and seniors. However, as with any dog breed, you need to ensure that they are the right breed for you and your circumstances. There are several factors to consider when taking on this breed.
Although the exact amount you feed your Pekinese will depend on age, size, and health, a Pekingese will typically eat between half to one cup of good quality dry food every day. You should look for foods that are high in nutrients, in order to keep their skin and hair in good condition.
The Pekingese enjoys getting out for a short walk every day. Expect to walk them for approximately half an hour. This breed has a flat nose, which means that too much exercise can lead to difficulty breathing, so you might want to consider two shorter walks, rather than a single walk. Although your Peke might enjoy playing a little, they really don’t require too much exercise each day.
The grooming requirements of this purebred dog are high. Their hair is long for their size, and they will shed. Brush your Peke at least twice a week. Be prepared to bathe them when necessary, but do not bathe them too often, and always ensure that you use a sensitive shampoo that is designed for canine use.
You can also trim the hair around their eyes, which will enable them to see more clearly. If you are uncomfortable doing this yourself, have a professional groomer do it for you. Check inside their ears and wipe away excess gunk with a clean cloth, although this isn’t a problem that the breed is commonly known for. Tear stains can be commonplace, and you should wipe their tears away to stop this from becoming an unsightly problem.
Finally, their claws will need occasional trimming. Ideally, you should start this when they are a puppy so that they will get used to it. Again, though, a professional groomer or even a veterinarian can do this for you, if necessary.
The Pekingese actually has a long average lifespan, despite the fact that there are a number of health conditions that they are prone to. For a start, almost all Pekingese are born by C-section and the puppy mortality rate is high. The breed has also been bred with certain deformities because breeders believe this is what owners are looking for. In particular, you will need to look out for the following conditions and take your puppy for veterinarian care if he shows symptoms.
Minor Conditions

 Patellar luxation
 Eye conditions
 Fold dermatitis

Serious Conditions

 Elongated soft palate
 Brachycephalic syndrome
 Mitral valve disease
 Hydrocephalus
 Legg-Calve-Perthes


 
Male vs Female
The male Pekingese will grow to be taller, heavier, and stronger than the female. The male is also known to be a little more aggressive and stubborn than the female.


Conclusion
The Pekingese is one of the most popular of all toy breeds and makes a good companion pet. He requires minimal exercise but can be difficult to train and, despite having a long average lifespan, he is actually prone to a list of diseases and complaints. They also take a lot of work to groom and to keep looking their best, but if you have the time then you will likely form a very strong bond with the Peke, and he will protect you.
The Peke can adapt to life in an apartment, and will get along with most family members including cats, but can be wary of strangers. This wariness may also lead to barking, and this can cause problems with the neighbors, so early training that teaches them when to stop barking should be considered an integral facet of owning this breed.
Overall, there is a reason for this breed’s popularity, and that is that he will form a very strong bond with his primary owner, and the bond is almost impossible to break.

Featured Image: T.Den_Team, Shutterstock
ContentsPekingese Puppies3 Little-Known Facts About the Pekingese1. The Pekingese Has Royal Heritage2. They Make Surprisingly Good Guard Dogs3. They Require a Lot of GroomingTemperament & Intelligence of the Pekingese 🧠Are These Dogs Good for Families? 🏡Does This Breed Get Along with Other Pets? 🐶 😽Things to Know When Owning a Pekingese:Food & Diet Requirements 🦴Exercise 🐕Training 🦮Grooming ✂️Health and Conditions ❤️Male vs FemaleConclusion           How useful was this post?               Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)                                 Submit Rating                  Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!       Your feedback really matters.          What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?            Submit Feedback

The male Pekingese will grow to be taller, heavier, and stronger than the female. The male is also known to be a little more aggressive and stubborn than the female.

The Pekingese is one of the most popular of all toy breeds and makes a good companion pet. He requires minimal exercise but can be difficult to train and, despite having a long average lifespan, he is actually prone to a list of diseases and complaints. They also take a lot of work to groom and to keep looking their best, but if you have the time then you will likely form a very strong bond with the Peke, and he will protect you.
The Peke can adapt to life in an apartment, and will get along with most family members including cats, but can be wary of strangers. This wariness may also lead to barking, and this can cause problems with the neighbors, so early training that teaches them when to stop barking should be considered an integral facet of owning this breed.
Overall, there is a reason for this breed’s popularity, and that is that he will form a very strong bond with his primary owner, and the bond is almost impossible to break.
Featured Image: T.Den_Team, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
Can Cats Eat Kale? Vet-Reviewed Nutrition Facts & FAQ
4 Homemade Grain-Free Cat Treat Recipes (Vet Approved)
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Cats
Cats
Info
© All Rights Reserved Hepper 2025
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
Pekingese dogs have a history spanning over 2000 years, tracing back to ancient China, where they were revered as a sacred breed. They were bred for the Chinese imperial families and symbolized the lion in Buddhist mythology. Stealing or harming one of these imperial dogs was punishable by death. Pekingeses got their name from the city of Beijing (formerly Peking). It wasn't until the 1860 invasion of Beijing by British troops that the breed was introduced to the Western world.
The Pekingese may suffer from elongated soft palate, patellar luxation, stenotic nares, keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS), trichiasis, corneal abrasions, distichiasis, skin fold dermatitis, and urolithiasis. They are also known to be heat intolerant and sensitive to anesthesia, so the latter is important to discuss before any planned surgery.
Pekingese dogs are known for their independent and dignified personality. They are loyal, affectionate, and make excellent companions. They can be wary of strangers but are generally good with children and other pets if properly socialized. Despite their small size, they are courageous and have a somewhat stubborn streak, which can make training a challenge at times. Regular mental stimulation and moderate exercise are important for this breed.
The Pekingese has a distinctive facial feature known as a "mane" or "ruff," which is reminiscent of a lion's mane.Pekingese Foo Dog idols are sacred symbols that have been handed down throughout generations in China.Five Pekingeses survived the sinking of the Titanic, showing the breed's resilience.
https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/pekingese/https://www.fci.be/en/nomenclature/PEKINGESE-207.htmlhttps://www.ukcdogs.com/pekingese
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
