Image Credit: Jus_Ol, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 26, 2025 by Joe Burns
Click Below to Skip Ahead
If you’ve been searching for a smaller dog to add to your family, you might want to consider the Pembroke Welsh Corgi. Often confused with the Cardigan Welsh Corgi, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi is probably most famous for being the favorite breed of Queen Elizabeth II. They are affectionate, smart, and energetic, and they’re ideal for more active families.
If you don’t know much about this breed, we have you covered. Below, you’ll find everything you could ever want to know about the Pembroke Welsh Corgi, from the breed’s history to little-known facts. With this information, you can decide if they are the one for you.
Height:
10–12 inches
Weight:
28–30 pounds
Lifespan:
12–13 years
Colors:
Sable, fawn, red, black & tan
Suitable for:
Active individuals and families, those seeking a lively, friendly pup
Temperament:
Friendly, playful, intelligent
The Pembroke Welsh Corgi has been around for a long time. They were once used to herd sheep, cattle, and other livestock, but now they’re most often companion dogs. Due to their friendly nature, the Corgi makes a fabulous pet (though they can be somewhat active, so you’ll have to keep up!).

You may have difficulty finding a Pembroke Welsh Corgi at your local shelter, but there are rescue organizations you can try. Many states will have rescue groups for this breed; even if yours doesn’t, a nearby state might cover your area. Chances are, you’ll need to get your Pembroke Welsh Corgi from a reputable breeder. You can find a wealth of reputable breeders via the Pembroke Welsh Corgi Club of America.
Once you have your puppy, you can expect to have a lively, intelligent canine on your hands! Your Corgi puppy will love to play and should take to training well (though this dog has a bit of a stubborn streak). Your puppy may also be quite vocal until you train them to bark less, so be aware of that.
The exact origins of the Pembroke Welsh Corgi are unknown, but it’s thought that they date back to approximately 1107 A.D. They made their way to England by way of Flemish weavers when Henry I invited the weavers to work and live in Wales. They accepted his invitation and brought along the dogs they used to herd sheep and cattle; they are believed to be the foundation for the Pembroke Welsh Corgi we know and love today.
These pups have been used as guard dogs, herding dogs, and, of course, companion dogs. In fact, Queen Elizabeth II was a huge fan and owned Pembroke Welsh Corgis from 1933 onwards!

Though the Pembroke Welsh Corgi is small in stature, they have an incredibly large personality! They are playful and affectionate with their families. They love to play games and can be quite active (after all, they used to chase after sheep and cattle). Their herding background also makes them courageous and very agile, but they can have an independent streak and desire to do things their way.
Corgis are incredibly intelligent, so they take to training well and are great at agility courses and show competitions. Because they are so loyal and loving to their families, they can also make fantastic watchdogs. Early training and plenty of activity will keep your pup happy and healthy!
The Corgi makes a wonderful pet for the right family. Because they are so friendly, they get along well with children of all ages, but children should be taught how to interact with them properly. They may be muscular and capable of caring for themselves, but they’re still on the smaller side, so they shouldn’t be involved in excessive roughhousing.
The Pembroke Welsh Corgi will happily join family members on walks, hikes, or in backyard games. They can be energetic, so be prepared for lots of play! Due to their herding background, they also have a protective nature, so they can make excellent watchdogs who will look out for all family members.
Corgis can get along with other animals, including dogs and cats. However, they can be ambivalent toward other dogs in the home because of their independent nature. They’ll likely be tolerant of smaller animals, but because their prey drive isn’t high, they shouldn’t chase after them. However, if your dog is properly trained and socialized from a young age, you shouldn’t encounter too many issues with the Pembroke Welsh Corgi and other pets.

There’s so much more to know about the Pembroke Welsh Corgi than what’s been mentioned above. You need to know how to properly care for your pup, including learning how to groom them, what to feed them, and more.
The Pembroke Welsh Corgi will do best on high-quality dog food suited to their age and size. You can talk to your vet about the appropriate amount to feed your dog each day, as the serving sizes on dog food bags aren’t always accurate. This is especially important in the Corgi’s case since they’re prone to weight gain. Also, search for healthy treats that don’t contain many calories for your dog.
Because they were initially developed to herd, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi is a relatively active little dog. They’ll need around an hour of daily exercise and play. They love to go on long walks or jogs, but because their legs are so short, they won’t be able to keep up with runners or bicyclists.
They can also participate in tracking, herding, and agility events. The Pembroke Welsh Corgi is also at their best when they have a job to do, so let them “help” around the house. Add in some games, such as fetch, and mental stimulation, like puzzle games, and you’ll have a happy pup on your hands!
The Pembroke Welsh Corgi is highly intelligent, so they take to training well. However, you may occasionally run into issues because of that independent streak they sometimes have. Occasionally, they want to do things their way! However, training them should be relatively easy.
Be sure to keep things interesting for your pup by mixing up training activities. Also, ensure you only use positive reinforcement with your dog and keep training sessions shorter. Don’t forget to begin socializing your Pembroke Welsh Corgi from an early age, too, so they learn to get along with other animals and people!
Due to their thick double coats, Corgis are heavy shedders. To keep their coat healthy and shiny, you should brush it with a slicker brush daily to eliminate loose hair. This will keep the hair on your furniture to a minimum. When shedding season occurs in late spring to early summer, you’ll also want to incorporate a rake to strip your pup’s undercoat.
Besides reducing the amount of loose hair flying around, you’ll need to brush your pup’s teeth regularly, bathe them as needed, and trim their nails.
Pembroke Welsh Corgis are relatively healthy but have a few conditions they are prone to developing. In particular, they can develop skeletal or joint issues, so if you adopt your pup from a breeder, ensure the breeder has run the proper tests.

There are no fundamental differences in personality between male and female Pembroke Welsh Corgis. The most significant difference is their size, as males weigh a few pounds more. Whether a female or male Pembroke Welsh Corgi is right for your family will depend on your personal preference.

You can never know too much about a dog, so here are a few more facts about the Pembroke Wesh Corgi that you may not have known!
Possibly, at least. Some think the word “Corgi” comes from “cor”, meaning to watch over, and “gi”, meaning dog; others believe the “cor” means dwarf, which would make Corgi translate to “dwarf dog.”
Amazon’s editor-in-chief had a Pembroke Welsh Corgi named Rufus who came to work with them each day. Rufus soon became the company’s unofficial mascot and helped foster its dog-friendly culture.
Legend has it that the Pembroke Welsh Corgi worked for the Fae, pulling carriages and acting as a steed for Fae warriors.

The Pembroke Welsh Corgi is a sweet, energetic, loyal pup that makes a wonderful pet for families and individuals. They enjoy running around with kids, going on walks, and being involved in everything you do. The biggest downside to the Corgi is probably how vocal they can be, but if you begin training them early, you should be able to prevent them from barking too much.
Featured Image Credit: Jus_Ol, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Misty Layne lives out in the woods in small-town Alabama with her two Siamese - Serafina & Jasper. She also has an array of stray cats, raccoons, and possums who like to call her front porch home. When she’s not writing about animals, you’ll find her writing poetry, stories, and film reviews (the animals are, by far, her favorite writing topic, though!). In her free time, Misty enjoys chilling with her cats, playing piano, watching indie and foreign films, photographing abandoned places, and catching up on her never-ending TBR list.
Loved this article, very helpful! We are rescuing a corgi dog ❤️
We're so happy to hear that, Kimberly! Corgi's are the cutest.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
From the fields to the home, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi has come a long way since its humble origins. Outgoing, playful, loving, and companionable dogs, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi makes a great family pet, as it plays wonderfully with children, although it may be a bit reserved around strangers. As long as you provide your Pembroke Welsh Corgi with daily exercise, both mental and physical, you’ll get a lot out of your big-eared little companions.

Famous for being the preferred breed of Queen Elizabeth II, you don’t need to be royalty to own a Pembroke Welsh Corgi. Read on for more information about this adorable breed.

Outgoing, playful, loving, and companionable dogs, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi makes a great family pet, as it plays wonderfully with children.


Introduced to Wales in the ninth century, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi made its way to Pembrokeshire in the 12 century. It is believed that is said that Vikings and Flemish weavers brought the dogs with them when they decided to settle in Wales. The Pembroke Welsh Corgi was used for herding sheep, geese, ducks, horses and cattle, and is considered to be one of the oldest herding breed of dogs. Found to be excellent companions as well, this breed is a favorite of Queen Elizabeth II, who owned 16 Pembroke Welsh Corgis at one point.

The Pembroke Welsh Corgi originated from the Swedish Valhund. It was cross bred with Schipperke, Pomeranian, and other Spitz-type dogs. And up until the early 20th century, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi and the Cardigan Welsh Corgi were considered the same breed.

The AKC recognized the Pembroke Welsh Corgi in 1934.


You should feed your Pembroke Welsh Corgi a premium quality dog kibble. As well, these Corgis do well with fish, lamb, poultry, potato, beets, carrots, and barley.

Smart and quick-witted, Pembroke Welsh Corgis learn quickly.


Smart and quick-witted, Pembroke Welsh Corgis learn quickly. But even though the breed is intelligent, you’ll still need to implement firm training methods and consistent training sessions to maintain good behavior and skills. As with most dog breeds, you shouldn’t use harsh or negative training methods on your Pembroke Welsh Corgi – it just won’t work and you’ll end up frustrated. Another thing to keep in mind is that Corgis don’t respond to repetitive training because it gets bored easily. Part of the training should include not to bark at strangers – socialization and obedience training can help this problem. And although the Pembroke Welsh Corgi probably will not respond to commands from strangers, it will respond commands from all family members. Once properly trained, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi makes good obedience and show dogs once they have been properly trained. This breed is natural herders, so herding trails are a good competition to get involved in.


Male Pembroke Welsh Corgi weights 25 to 30 pounds, while the females weigh in from 24 to 28 pounds.

You’ll find that Pembroke Welsh Corgis have a happy personality, are loyal to its masters, and quite tough. It plays well with children, as long as it’s not pestered and can even handle some rough play. Because this breed was made to herd livestock, it can be a little domineering at times, but proper training can take care of this problem. Pembroke Welsh Corgis are good problems solvers, but your dog may also have a stubborn and independent streak. Corgis are natural watchdogs and will bark at strangers and distrust people they do not know. If you want to correct this, start training and socializing is important. As long as it is socialized early, Pembroke Welsh Corgis are good companion animals for your other family pets.


Because it is a long-bodied purebred dog, one of the major problems with the Pembroke Welsh Corgi is intervertebral disc disease, which is a back problem. Other health issues include progressive retinal atrophy, glaucoma, Von Willebrand’s Disease and epilepsy.


Pembroke Welsh Corgis have a life expectancy of 12 to 15 years.


Exercise is important for the Pembroke Welsh Corgi, as it can develop back problems and needs to be kept at a healthy weight. If your dog is obese, its back problems will only get worse. As well, try to make sure your Corgi doesn’t jump. An active dog, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi loves to play and run. Regular exercise is mandatory, so a backyard is a great asset. To wear your dog out, kids make excellent playmates – get them to play tug of war, hide and seek, and chase games. For outdoor activities to do with your Pembroke Welsh Corgi, go for a walk, jog or hike, or take your pooch to the dog park to play with other dogs.

You’ll find that Pembroke Welsh Corgis have a happy personality, are loyal to its masters, and quite tough.


The American Kennel Club says this about the breed: “Low-set, strong and sturdily built, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi gives an impression of substance in a small space. He is one of the most agreeable small house dogs, as well as an avid competitor in many dog sports, including conformation, herding and obedience.”


Sporting a thick coat of medium length hair, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi’s outer coat of its double coat is coarse, while the inner coat is fine and thick. Oils from its skin make its fur water resistant. The Pembroke Welsh Corgi’s coat can be black, tan, sable, red, or fawn. Some have coats with white markings.

The Pembroke Welsh Corgi medium length coat is easy to maintain. Shedding seasons take place in the spring and summer, so weekly brushing with a wire brush will help. Brush both the outer and under coat to keep tangles at a minimum. Since its coat is naturally water resistant, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi does not need to be bathed regularly. But if you must give your dog a bath, use specially formulated shampoos with the correct skin and hair pH.


Your Pembroke Welsh Corgi will need to be socialized with other animals and people as soon as possible, otherwise it may be shy and reserved.

Photo credit: Lee319/Shutterstock
Amy Tokic, Editor of PetGuide.com, is a passionate animal lover and proud pet parent of Oscar, a Shih Tzu/Chihuahua cross, and Zed, a Japanese Chin. Her love of animals began in kindergarten, when she brought her stuffed dog Snoopy into class with her every day. Now, she writes about her adventures in pet ownership and tirelessly researches products, news and health related issues she can share with other animal enthusiasts. In her free time, Amy loves perusing used book and record stores, obsessing over the latest pet products available and chasing squirrels with wild abandon (a habit attributed to spending too much time with her pooches).
More by Amy Tokic
Cruise lovers have long faced the fact that dogs (except service dogs) aren’t allowed to join them on their favorite ships. Luckily, an exciting announcement from Expedia Cruise of West Orlando and Cruise Tails revealed a dog-friendly cruise will set sail in November 2025 on the Margaritaville at Sea Islander. What’s the catch? While the cruise is estimated to include up to 250 canine cruisers, there were strict limitations on which dogs would be allowed to board. Among the restrictions was the fact that only dogs up to 20 lbs (and 18 inches in height) would be allowed on the maiden voyage. On their website, Cruise Tails stressed that this first cruise is a “proof of concept” as the first pet cruise ever. The success of this cruise will have a considerable impact on the future of pet-friendly cruising. Recognizing this, they state that “everything has been planned with an abundance of caution and safety.” They hope that after a successful initial cruise, they will be able to loosen the leash for future trips.   Pet parents were invited to sign up for updates, and in December, the initial round of applications was opened for those whose dogs met their strict requirements. But a new announcement has opened the door for a larger pool of pet-friendly cruise lovers. While large and extra-large dogs are still not eligible to join in on the fun, the weight limit for travelers has been increased to 28 lbs (the 18-inch height still applies). This rule change may seem minor, but it is a game changer for those who share their lives with popular breeds like the Pembroke Welsh Corgi or the French Bulldog. In addition to the weight and height requirements, there are several other rules to consider when determining if your dog is eligible, including: Only dogs 6 months old and older are eligible. All dogs boarding must be up-to-date on their vaccinations, including rabies, distemper, and parvovirus. Dog parents must be able to provide a valid veterinary health certificate issued within 30 days of their sailing date. Dogs must be microchipped or have an approved ID tag, including the dog’s name, cabin number, and valid contact information. Dogs with a history of aggressive behavior toward people or animals are prohibited. The cruise only allows for one dog per cabin. However, larger families may still be able to cruise together if they book multiple cabins, accepting that the dogs will be separated when they turn in for the night. Regardless of the initial restrictions, the cruise is an exciting step forward for pet-friendly travel lovers. Assuming all goes well with this initial trip, it could not only mean future trips with Cruise Tails but also encourage other cruise lines to reconsider their strict no-pets policy. This could be a significant turning point for the travel industry. We can’t wait to hear more updates, not only from Cruise Tails but also from those who will be setting sail! Join the PetGuide community. Get the latest pet news and product recommendations by subscribing to our newsletter  here.
Does your playful pup turn into a little velociraptor anytime they are around guests or even family members (especially children)? It’s a common struggle with herding dogs, but it doesn’t have to continue frustrating you for the rest of their lives! Herding dogs were bred with strong instincts to manage and control the movement of livestock. While that behavior is helpful when working in the fields, it can translate into unwanted nipping in everyday life. In this article, we’ll explain why herding dogs nip and, more importantly, how to train them to show their affection in a more acceptable way. What are the Personality Traits of a Herding Dog? Before focusing on this specific problem behavior, let’s take a step back and start at the beginning. What is a herding dog, and what personality traits are they most known for? Dogs classified in the Herding Group were bred specifically to gather, herd, and protect livestock. This means that they were bred with instincts that would help them perform their jobs safely and effectively. Some of the more common herding breeds include:  Australian Cattle Dog  Australian Shepherd Bearded Collie Belgian Malinois Border Collie  Collie  German Shepherd Dog  Old English Sheepdog Pembroke Welsh Corgi Shetland SheepdogThese dogs are athletic and agile, allowing them to work with livestock on any terrain. They are also incredibly smart and can learn to follow even the most subtle hand movements. This means they are highly trainable but also have high exercise needs. Why Does My Herding Dog Nip People? Okay, these dogs are highly intelligent and full of energy – but how does that translate to nipping? If this is your first time living with a herding dog, you may be concerned that your dog has aggressive tendencies after seeing them nip at peoples’ ankles. You may be relieved to learn that this isn’t actually a sign of aggression. When your herding dog nips at someone’s feet or heels, they are tapping into their natural instincts. They are attempting to herd that person, just as they would with livestock in the field. Understanding this can help you view their behavior in a different light. The herding behavior is more likely to be triggered when someone mimics livestock in their eyes, running or playing around. Children are often on the receiving end for this reason, which can create a concerning situation.
There’s no doubt that dogs are by far the most popular pets in the U.S., with roughly 65.1 million homes having one or more dogs as pets. But not all breeds are loved equally, according to the latest studies from the American Pet Products Association. Certain dog breeds seem a bit more loved by Americans than others and these rankings are a great insight into their popularity in different cities.&nbsp;The North American Pet Health Insurance Association also reports that the number of insured pets in the U.S. has increased around 22.6% annually since 2020, which indicates that doggos are continuing to steal the spotlight as the most famous pets around. In fact, the vast majority of insured pets in the country are dogs.&nbsp; U.S. News & World Report analyzed all this data to reveal the five most popular dog breeds in 25 major U.S. cities, indicating some very unique dog ownership trends.&nbsp;1. Austin, Texas:GoldendoodleFrench BulldogLabrador RetrieverGolden RetrieverSiberian Husky2. Boston, MassachusettsGolden RetrieverGerman ShepherdShih TzuBichon FriseCavalier King Charles Spaniel3. Charlotte, North CarolinaGolden RetrieverGoldendoodleEnglish Springer SpanielBrittany SpanielFrench Bulldog4. Chicago, IllinoisGoldendoodleGolden RetrieverGerman ShepherdFrench BulldogMiniature Dachshund5. Columbus, OhioGolden RetrieverRottweilerAustralian ShepherdBernese Mountain DogSilken Windhound6. Dallas, TexasFrench BulldogLabrador Retriever (Yellow)Cane CorsoGolden RetrieverPembroke Welsh Corgi7. Denver, ColoradoGolden RetrieverFrench BulldogGerman ShepherdMalteseAmerican Pit Bull Terrier8. El Paso, TexasShih TzuGerman ShepherdFrench BulldogSchnauzerLabrador Retriever9. Fort Worth, TexasGoldendoodleGerman ShepherdMaltesePugBeagle10. Houston, TexasGoldendoodleGerman ShepherdFrench BulldogChihuahuaPomeranian11. Indianapolis, IndianaShih TzuChihuahuaAmerican BullyAmerican Pit Bull TerrierGoldendoodle12. Jacksonville, FloridaGolden RetrieverFrench BulldogBoxerToy PoodleAmerican Bully13. Las Vegas, NevadaFrench BulldogGolden RetrieverGoldendoodleAustralian ShepherdShih Tzu14. Los Angeles, CaliforniaFrench BulldogGolden RetrieverChihuahuaEnglish BulldogGoldendoodle15. Nashville, TennesseeGoldendoodleGolden RetrieverLagotto RomagnoloLabrador RetrieverSiberian Husky16. New York, New YorkGolden RetrieverYorkshire TerrierGoldendoodleShih TzuFrench Bulldog17. Oklahoma City, OklahomaGerman ShepherdEnglish BulldogGreat PyreneesMiniature SchnauzerYorkshire Terrier18. Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaGolden RetrieverYorkshire TerrierChihuahuaShih TzuAmerican Pit Bull Terrier19. Phoenix, ArizonaGolden RetrieverGerman ShepherdChihuahuaAustralian ShepherdFrench Bulldog20. San Antonio, TexasLabrador Retriever (Yellow)PugFrench BulldogChihuahuaGerman Shepherd21. San Diego, CaliforniaGolden RetrieverPugFrench BulldogLabrador Retriever (Yellow)Labrador Retriever22. San Francisco, CaliforniaGoldendoodleChihuahuaShih TzuGerman ShepherdPomeranian23. San Jose, CaliforniaGerman ShepherdGoldendoodleGolden RetrieverPembroke Welsh CorgiToy Poodle24. Seattle, WashingtonGolden RetrieverFrench BulldogDachshundGoldendoodlePoodle25. Washington, D.C.French BulldogPoodle&nbsp;Golden RetrieverSoft-Coated Wheaten TerrierGoldendoodleIt's clear that in many of America’s largest cities, certain breeds are more popular than others, like the Goldendoodle, Golden Retriever, and French Bulldog. Poodles, Pugs, and German Shepherds are also close at the top. We can also spot some regional trends as well. For example, the German Shepherd is quite popular in Texas, mainly for its role as a working and service dog.What about you? What is your favorite dog breed and why? Does your personal fave align with your city’s most popular breeds? Tell us in the comments!
Are mixed-breed dogs really healthier? A new study of more than 27,000 companion dogs discovered that mutts are just as likely to experience health issues as their purebred counterparts. It turns out that a smaller gene pool doesn’t make purebred dogs more prone to common doggy ailments when compared to mixed-breed dogs.&nbsp;The study led by researchers from the Texas A&M School of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences found that while certain purebreds are prone to specific health problems, both purebreds and mixed-breeds are equal in terms of the overall frequency of health condition diagnoses.&nbsp;“There are several well-known diseases that frequently occur in specific dog breeds,” explained Dr. Kate Creevy, chief veterinary officer of the Dog Aging Project and a professor in the VMBS’ Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences. “This has helped perpetuate the misconception that all purebred dogs are more prone to diseases, but that is not the case.”The  study, which surveyed a total of 27,541 dogs, identified 25 breeds that made up around 60% of the purebred dog population within the Dog Aging Project. Those breeds include Labrador retriever, golden retriever, German shepherd, poodle, Australian shepherd, dachshund, border collie, Chihuahua, beagle, Pembroke Welsh corgi, boxer, shih tzu, miniature schnauzer, pug, Havanese, cavalier King Charles spaniel, Great Dane, greyhound, Boston terrier, Siberian husky, Shetland sheepdog, English springer spaniel, Australian cattle dog, and Doberman pinscher.&nbsp;Scientists found that within these 25 breeds, 53 medical conditions make up the top owner-reported medical issues. “The medical conditions reported by owners varied considerably,” said Creevy. “However, some conditions appeared frequently in the top 10 reported health conditions by breed.”The 10 health conditions most reported for purebred dogs include dental calculus (hardened plaque), dog bites, extracted teeth, giardia, osteoarthritis, seasonal allergies, ear infections, heart murmur, fractured teeth, and cataracts.&nbsp;For mixed-breed dogs, the top 10 conditions were nearly the same, with cataracts and heart murmur being replaced with torn/broken toenails and chocolate toxicity.&nbsp;Some maladies, such as dental calculus and osteoarthritis appeared roughly the same in purebreds and mutts. However, some conditions were more commonly seen in one than the other. For example, purebreds had more extracted teeth, and dog bites, while mixed-breeds had more ear infections.&nbsp;Out of 53 owner-reported medical conditions, 26 didn’t differ significantly between purebred and mixed-breed dogs. What’s more interesting is that 22.3% of owners of purebred dogs reported their canine companions having no health issues, compared to 20.7% of mixed-breed owners, meaning that purebred dogs were healthier than mixed-breed dogs.&nbsp;The most important finding of this study is that dog breed is just one aspect of pet health to think about when creating a dog care plan, or researching what kind of dog to adopt.&nbsp;“People should consider many factors when choosing a dog, including environment, lifestyle, social interactions and physical activity that will be available to the dog,” said Creevy. “Planning for both preventative care and medical care as the dog ages is also prudent. Dog owners should also talk with their primary care veterinarians about the kinds of medical problems to which their new dog might be particularly prone based on breed, size, sex, etc.”&nbsp;Researchers think that the main reason people believe mixed-breed dogs are healthier than purebreds is because certain breeds of dogs suffer from well-known health problems. For example, German shepherds and Labrador retrievers are prone to hip dysplasia, poodles are more likely to get glaucoma, and Great Danes are prone to bloat.&nbsp;The fact that some purebreds are susceptible to breed-specific diseases, while mixed-breeds aren’t has contributed to the myth that purebred dogs are more likely to get sick than their mixed-breed counterparts. We now know that’s not the case thanks to this new study.&nbsp;Join the PetGuide community. Get the latest pet news and product recommendations by subscribing to our newsletter  here.
Cardigan Welsh Corgi Basics
A low-to-the-ground dog willing to give you plenty of obedience and all the activity you can handle, the Cardigan Welsh Corgi is a prime example of a dog that can be a good challenge for those who want to develop dog leadership skills. Even though leadership skills are required of virtually any type of dog, you&rsquo;ll soon realize that you have to be up to this &ldquo;challenge&rdquo; if you want a Cardigan Welsh Corgi.
The Cardigan Welsh Corgi can be a perfectly friendly, ready-to-please breed that is nice to children as long as it understands its place in the pecking order. Considering how common this is across a variety of dog breeds, there might be something else about the Cardigan Welsh Corgi that attracts you to the breed. Maybe it&rsquo;s the small, house-ready features or simply its lively, often-submissive personality. Whatever it is about the Cardigan Welsh Corgi that attracts you to this breed, it&rsquo;s time to fill in the blanks and learn even more about what makes it unique. 
The Cardigan Welsh Corgi can be a perfectly friendly, ready-to-please breed.
Origin
Many believe that the Cardigan Welsh Corgi first arrived at Cardiganshire in 1,200 B.C. If so, this makes the breed among the oldest known breeds. Like many dogs, the Cardigan Welsh Corgi built up its instincts by being of a certain use to farmers&hellip; in this case, British farmers who would need a way to herd cattle without taking up a lot of space. Herding remains a strong instinct in the Cardigan to this day, and we&rsquo;ll get into a little bit more detail later to explain how this behavior can manifest itself in the 21st century.
Being suited for the outdoors but able to handle smaller spaces, thanks to this upbringing, the origins of the Cardigan Welsh Corgi have led to it becoming a flexible outdoor/indoor dog, capable of handling city life or rural life. As the Cardigan Welsh Corgi breed grew and was eventually recognized as its own breed in the 1930s, it attained this flexibility by living in many small-acre farms and lots.
Pedigree
Not all heroes wear capes, and that is particularly true for this one-of-a-kind hero dog. This senior doggo is more than deserving of that title as he valiantly saved a shelter volunteer from a dangerous encounter with a deadly snake. To make everything all the more amazing is the fact that the savior doggo is blind.Moogan, the hero dog in question, is blind due to a rare medical condition. He was walking one day with his caretaker, a shelter volunteer from Utah’s Best Friends Animal Sanctuary, named Dan Fishbein. Dan was there to make sure Moogan didn’t bump into obstacles. "He&#39;s so curious, still smelling the flowers, feeling out his surroundings," he said for Newsweek. "I&#39;m always on the lookout to make sure he doesn&#39;t barrel into anything."Being so focused on the obstacles in Moogan’s path, Dan Fishbein failed to notice a major threat – a rattlesnake that lay directly in his path. But Moogan’s sharp senses at once went into action and the dog pivoted sharply and directed Dan’s attention downwards, straight to the snake he was about to step on. "Moogan turned to the right, so I looked down, and there it was," Fishbein said. "A rattlesnake, coiled right next to my foot. I gently pulled him away, thanking him. Who would have thought my blind companion would be the one to save me?"
Declawing cats has now become illegal in Massachusetts, thanks to a law that was signed by Governor Maura Healey. Titled “An Act Prohibiting Inhumane Feline Declawing,” the law bans the procedure in the state. Those who violate the law can face fines or be subject to discipline.
There are few things as heartwarming online as a heartwarming pet video, and the internet has once again delivered. This time, it comes in the form of a viral video featuring a rescue dog named Cactus and his irresistible way of demanding cuddles from his dog dad. The short clip was posted by user @cactustherescue and has quickly earned nearly 80,000 likes on Instagram and over 81,000 likes on TikTok. It proves just how much a simple act of affection can resonate deeply with an audience of pet lovers. Since capturing the hearts of thousands of pet lovers, it caught the attention of online publications and news platforms, including Yahoo, AOL, DogTime, and more. With a look of determination on his face and the charm of his adorable puppy eyes, he approaches his dad, pawing gently at him as if asking for something. Eventually, after a little persuasion, he falls back into the cuddle position with his head against his dad’s, melting hearts around the world.
As a cat parent, we love our feline friends, but let’s be honest, sometimes their natural instincts can seriously clash with our home décor. The frustration of discovering claw marks on your favorite sofa, finding your beloved houseplants overturned and dug up, or worse, dealing with territorial marking in your house is an experience that many of us share.I understand the desire to find a humane and effective solution to protect our homes without harming our cats. After all, our cats are family, and we want to coexist peacefully. The goal is not to punish them but to guide their behavior in a positive direction.Cat deterrent sprays offer several advantages, discouraging our kitties from engaging in unwanted behaviors in specific areas. Creating a DIY cat deterrent spray may be the perfect option for those seeking a budget-friendly solution or who like to control the substances coming into their home.In this article, I’ll share how to make a safe and effective cat deterrent spray. Plus, I’ll discuss the other factors to consider when setting your cat up for success, including long-term behavior medication, positive reinforcement, and other cat-proofing options.Understanding Cat BehaviorBefore I go into the details about making and using a cat deterrent spray, let’s step back and start at the beginning. It’s essential to understand why cats engage in the behaviors we find problematic. Scratching, for example, is far more than just a destructive behavior. It’s a natural instinct that serves many important purposes, including: Claw Maintenance: Allowing them to shed old nail sheaths Territorial Marking: Leaving both a visual and scent cueEmotional Release: A way to express frustration or excitementSimilarly, marking (often through spraying urine or rubbing cheeks) is also a form of communication. Cats use scent to establish territory, signal their presence, and even share their emotions like stress or anxiety. Is your cat urinating outside their litter box? There are several possible reasons why your cat is doing their business in an unwanted location, including medical issues, stress, or problems with the litter box itself (location, type of litter, type of litter box, etc.). The first step to finding a solution is to make an appointment with your veterinarian to rule out any underlying medical conditions before considering it a behavioral problem. Suppressing these behaviors with a deterrent spray isn’t a long-term solution. Instead, you will need to identify the root cause of the problem and address it directly. For example, if your cat is scratching your furniture, try offering several scratching posts in various materials and locations to redirect their instincts to a positive outlet. Enriching their environment with toys, climbing structures, and interactive play can alleviate boredom and reduce stress-related marking. If your cat is experiencing anxiety, I recommend consulting a cat behaviorist. These professionals are uniquely skilled at identifying triggers and can help you develop a tailored plan to create a more positive home environment for your best friend. Finally, it’s important to remember that cats experience scents far differently than we do. Their sense of smell is far more sensitive than ours, allowing them to detect and identify subtle differences and interpret information from a scent we can’t. This is why they use scent as a significant part of their communication. This sensitive sense of smell is also why scents like citrus or vinegar are so effective at discouraging your cat from going in or near areas that you’re trying to protect. Choosing the Right Ingredients Onto the reason you’re reading this – how to make your own DIY cat deterrent spray. Selecting the right ingredients is crucial for both effectiveness and your cat’s safety. Essential oils, concentrated plant extracts, are popular as they offer strong scents that work well to deter cats. However, not all essential oils are safe for use around cats. Most importantly, even those that are safe for use around your cat must be handled and used with safety in mind. Always dilute essential oils significantly and consult your veterinarian before using them on your cat. Some essential oils can be extremely harmful, even fatal, if ingested, inhaled, or even absorbed through their skin. Luckily, several essential oils are considered safe and effective in diluted forms for cat deterrents. Citrus oils like orange and lemon often serve as the active ingredient in deterrent sprays as cats generally dislike their strong scents. While calming for humans, lavender can also act as a strong deterrent, but it should be used with caution and in very dilute form. Finally, eucalyptus and peppermint can be used, but sparingly and always diluted, as their strong menthol scents can be overwhelming and potentially irritating. Some essential oils are absolutely toxic to cats and should be avoided entirely. Tea tree oil, pennyroyal, wintergreen, pine, and many others can cause severe health problems, including liver damage, respiratory distress, and even death. These oils should never be used on or near your cat. Beyond essential oils, other ingredients (depending on your recipe) include: White Distilled Vinegar: Diluted with water, this is a common choice due to its strong, acidic scent Citrus Peels: A natural by-product of consuming citrus fruits, can be steeped in water to create a safe and effective citrus-scented deterrent Water: Serves as the base for all these sprays, diluting the other ingredients and allowing for easy application A carrier oil, such as coconut or almond, is essential if you choose to use essential oils. Diluting essential oils in a carrier oil before adding them to water prevents skin irritation and ensures a more even scent distribution. Finally, when possible, opt for organic ingredients. This minimizes the pesticides and other potentially harmful chemicals your cat may be exposed to, helping to create a healthier environment for your best friend.
If you’ve ever watched your dog sleep, you might have noticed them twitching, whimpering, or even paddling their legs as if they were running. It’s easy to wonder - are they dreaming? And if so, could they be having nightmares?The idea of dogs experiencing nightmares is fascinating, and while we can’t ask them directly, there’s plenty of evidence to suggest that they do, in fact, dream just like we do. But what exactly happens when a dog has a bad dream, and should you be concerned? Let’s take a closer look.Do Dogs Dream?Scientists believe that dogs, like humans, go through different sleep cycles, including REM (rapid eye movement) sleep. This is the stage of sleep when most  dreaming occurs. Research on brain activity in sleeping dogs has shown that their sleep patterns are strikingly similar to ours, which suggests that they likely dream as well.In fact, studies on rats have demonstrated that these small animals replay activities from their waking hours in their dreams. Since dogs have even more complex brains than rats, it’s highly likely that they also relive experiences in their sleep - both good and bad.What Do Dogs Dream About?Though we can’t say for certain, experts believe dogs dream about their daily experiences. Your dog might dream about chasing a ball, going for a walk, or interacting with people and other animals. A hunting breed might dream of tracking prey, while a herding dog could be rounding up imaginary sheep in its sleep.Because dogs process emotions much like humans do, it’s also possible that they dream about stressful or frightening experiences. If your pup had a rough day at the vet or encountered an aggressive dog at the park, those moments might play out in their dreams.Can Dogs Have Nightmares?Yes, dogs can have nightmares. Just as happy moments can appear in their dreams, so can fears and anxieties. If you’ve ever seen your dog whimper, growl, or suddenly jolt awake from sleep, it’s possible they were having a bad dream.Common triggers for nightmares in dogs might include past trauma (especially in rescue dogs),  loud noises like fireworks or thunderstorms, or stressful situations they’ve recently experienced. A dog that has had negative interactions with other animals or humans may also relive those moments in their sleep.Should You Wake a Dog from a Nightmare?It’s tempting to wake up a dog that seems distressed in their sleep, but it’s usually best to let them wake up on their own. Suddenly waking a dog from a deep sleep, especially during a nightmare, can startle them, causing them to react instinctively by snapping or growling.If your dog frequently has nightmares and appears very distressed, you can try gently calling their name from a distance to wake them gradually. Avoid touching them abruptly, as this can be disorienting.How to Help a Dog That Has Frequent NightmaresIf your dog seems to have bad dreams often, there are a few things you can do to help:
In a heartwarming tale highlighting the power of patience, training, and a loving foster home, a six-year-old German Shepherd named Relic has been named the Pedigree Foundation’s 2025 Rescue Dog of the Year. Relic’s journey from a stressed and nervous shelter dog to a beloved family member is a true happy ending. It’s a testament to the commitment of dedicated shelter workers like those at East Bay SPCA and the impact of a loving foster home. Relic’s story began at the East Bay SPCA in Oakland, California. When he arrived at the shelter, he was already showing signs of shelter stress – a bad omen for many in overcrowded shelters waiting for their forever home. But, the shelter staff saw potential in Relic, creating a plan of action that would set him up for success and keep him from being another statistic.  This plan included moving him into a private setting for specialized care and training while searching for the ideal foster home where he would thrive with personalized support. Finding the right foster home was easier than they anticipated. A couple who had recently lost their beloved cat of 15 years had contacted the shelter with the intention of fostering, opening their hearts and home to Relic and his ongoing care. “The house felt empty without him (the cat), but we weren’t quite ready to open our home to another pet,” the couple shared in a firsthand account of Relic’s story on the shelter’s website. “We thought fostering at the East Bay SPCA might be a nice way to have pets in the home without committing to it full-time and be able to provide a needed break from the shelter for a deserving pet.” They thought they were only taking Relic home for a week or two, but the Universe clearly had other plans… Despite having no prior experience with a reactive dog, the couple quickly learned, with the support of shelter staff and an in-house trainer, how to work through the challenges. Under their care, the once-nervous dog began to blossom, and a playful, affectionate personality emerged – a personality the couple quickly fell in love with. In fact, they fell so in love with the newest addition to their home that they couldn’t let him go, making the decision to adopt him. “Relic is a loyal, good natured dog who is well behaved around the house and a sweet cuddler when we let him up onto the bed with us,” the couple described. “He takes up a lot more space in the house than our cat did and it took some adjusting to, but we love having him around now and can’t imagine our home without him.” Today, Relic is living his best life in his forever home. He enjoys cuddling on the bed and playing with his favorite toys. The couple says he has befriended the neighbor’s dog, enjoying regular walks together. To celebrate Relic’s crowning achievement, the Pedigree Foundation has created a limited-edition plush toy in his likeness. It’s available for purchase at the Dogs Rule store, with a portion of the proceeds supporting their efforts to provide rescue grants and help dogs find loving homes through the organization's ongoing work.   Join the PetGuide community. Get the latest pet news and product recommendations by subscribing to our newsletter  here.

Have you seen the many elevated cat bowls, or the stands designed to elevate your pet’s bowl or dish a few inches off the floor? If so, you might’ve wondered why these newer designs are available—after all, cats have been eating and drinking from food and water bowls placed flat on the floor without any problems, right? There are actually many benefits that can be derived from using raised bowls for pets, and it’s worth considering switching to these or adding them to your rotation of bowls if you haven’t already. Plus, with so many styles to choose from, you can find products that will be just right for your cat.
Aromatherapy, the therapeutic use of essential oils derived from plants, is a growing trend - not just for humans but also for pets, especially dogs. Thanks to their exceptional sense of smell, dogs are particularly responsive to scents, making them good candidates for this practice. When used correctly, aromatherapy can offer several benefits for a dog’s emotional and physical well-being. However, it’s crucial to approach it with caution and the right knowledge.Understanding Aromatherapy and Its Benefits for DogsAromatherapy works by releasing scent molecules from essential oils. Once inhaled, these molecules travel to the brain, where they can help promote relaxation and support overall psychological well-being. Here are some potential benefits for your furry friend:1. Stress and Anxiety ReliefDogs are highly sensitive creatures and can become  anxious due to loud noises, travel, separation, or changes in routine. Essential oils like  lavender and chamomile are known for their calming properties and can help soothe a nervous or hyperactive dog.
New research suggests he'll take his cue from you.
Have you noticed that your once playful cat is recently becoming a little less energetic than usual? Are they spending more time at the water bowl? If you’re anything like me, you’re always on the lookout for signs of trouble in your cat’s behavior. After all, these small changes can sometimes be warning signs of a larger underlying issue. More specifically, these are signs often associated with kidney disease.Despite being surprisingly common in cats, especially those in their senior years, kidney disease isn’t a minor issue. This serious health challenge can significantly impact their quality of life. This post will offer practical advice and support to help you understand and manage kidney disease in your best friend, empowering you to ensure they can continue to live their best life after diagnosis.Recognizing the Signs and Symptoms of Kidney Disease Early detection of kidney disease in cats is crucial, allowing you to address the problem before it becomes more advanced and harder to manage. The difficulty in catching this disease early is that the initial signs can be subtle and often mimic normal aging. This can make it incredibly challenging to catch in senior cats, who are the highest risk factor. One of the first signs is an increase in thirst and urination, medically known as polydipsia and polyuria. You may notice your cat spending more time at the water bowl, the bowl needing to be filled regularly, or larger, more frequent clumps in the litter box. This is an excellent example of why, as a loving cat parent, you need to pay careful attention to your cat’s eating, drinking, and bathroom habits. They can often act as an early warning sign of trouble. Some other early warning signs include:  Loss of appetiteWeight loss LethargyDecreased grooming habits  DepressionRestlessness, especially at night As the disease progresses, more severe signs may emerge. Common symptoms of advanced kidney disease include vomiting and diarrhea, which can lead to dehydration. This is a dangerous cycle for your cat to become trapped in, as dehydration itself can make kidney problems worse. Other signs of advanced disease include oral ulcers and a distinct, unpleasant odor in their breath, often referred to as uremic breath. If you notice any of these symptoms, even seemingly minor ones, take them seriously. Contact your veterinarian and explain your concerns. Even if it’s found that your cat is just experiencing the impact of aging, it will still provide you with important information to help improve their quality of life. Diagnostic Tests and Procedures When your veterinarian suspects your cat may be suffering from kidney disease, they can use several diagnostic tools to confirm that diagnosis and assess the extent of any kidney damage. Blood tests are generally the first step and the cornerstone of this process. Specifically, they will test the creatinine levels and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels in the blood as these waste products accumulate in the bloodstream when the kidneys aren’t functioning properly. Your vet will also check phosphorus levels, as elevated phosphorus can contribute to further kidney damage. Finally, they may test the proportion of red blood cells in the total blood volume, also called the packed cell volume (PCV), as it can help assess for anemia, a common complication of kidney disease. Next, they will conduct urine tests to better understand your cat’s kidney function. They will test the concentration as diluted urine is common in cats with kidney disease. Protein levels in your cat’s urine can also indicate trouble, as healthy kidneys would work to prevent protein from leaking into the urine. Blood pressure monitoring is a crucial part of the diagnostic process, as high blood pressure is both a cause and a consequence of kidney disease. In some cases, your veterinarian may recommend X-rays or an ultrasound. X-rays can be used to identify whether there has been a change in kidney size or if any kidney stones are present. Ultrasounds make it easier to assess the internal structures of your cat’s kidneys and ensure there are no abnormalities or reasons to be concerned. It’s important to remember that these tests aren’t meant to overwhelm you but rather to give your vet a clear picture of your cat’s kidney health. Completing all the necessary testing will help stage the disease and create a personalized treatment plan. Supporting Your Cat’s Kidney Health with their DietOne of the most important things you can do as part of your cat’s care team (after all, you and your veterinarian are a team) is to focus on dietary management. Unlike standard cat foods, renal diets are specially formulated to address their unique nutritional needs. They are typically lower in phosphorus, restricted in protein, and supplemented with omega-3 fatty acids, all of which play an essential role in slowing the progression of kidney damage and maintaining overall health. As already mentioned, high phosphorus levels can worsen kidney damage and contribute to other health complications. When damaged, the kidneys struggle to eliminate any excess phosphorus in the body, one of their key roles, which can cause it to build up. Renal diets are formulated to minimize phosphorus intake, but may not be enough. Your veterinarian may also recommend medications called phosphate binders that help to reduce the amount of phosphorus your cat absorbs from their food. Protein management may seem counterproductive, considering the fact senior cats generally struggle to maintain muscle mass as they get older. However, excessive protein can actually overload your cat’s kidneys, pushing them to work harder and ultimately causing further damage. Instead, the ideal diet will balance providing the high-quality protein your cat needs while reducing the burden on the kidneys. Most renal foods will be supplemented with omega-3 fatty acids. However, your vet may recommend additional supplementation, especially if they feel the levels offered by the food won’t be sufficient to see the benefits. They may also suggest a supplement for B vitamins. One challenge many cat parents face is that cats can be picky eaters! This has been an ongoing struggle in our house with my sweet senior girl, Pippen, who has big opinions on the brand and flavor of her meals. While a renal diet is clearly the best option in most cases, your cat may have other plans. What do you do then? Here are some solutions that can help encourage your cat to eat more: Warm their food slightly can help release enticing smellsExperiment with different textures and flavorsOffer smaller but more frequent mealsChange the dish you use or where they are being fedElevate their food dish in case they are reluctant due to aches and pains Try hand-feeding If your cat is still reluctant to eat after trying all the options listed, reach out to your veterinarian. They may be able to offer advice on additional strategies or prescribe an appetite stimulant.
For most, the holiday season is a time of joy and happiness. But, that joy can quickly turn to stress and anxiety if your beloved pet experiences a medical emergency – especially with most veterinary clinics operating on reduced hours or even closing entirely during the holidays.While you should always prioritize preventative care, like keeping up with your annual checkups and ensuring your pet’s medications are fully stocked, unexpected situations can arise.In this guide, we will talk about what to do in an emergency when your veterinarian is closed. We’ll discuss what is (and isn’t) considered an emergency and ways to find veterinary care, including in-person and telemedicine/online care.Make sure you’re prepared for anything this holiday season!Emergency or Not an Emergency?One of the most important things to keep in mind heading into the holidays is that not every situation constitutes an emergency. While it may feel like it at the time, if you take a deep breath and look at the situation through calm, rational eyes, you may find that your “emergency” is something you can handle confidently on your own.Minor IssuesThe following health-related issues are relatively common during the holiday season, but you can address them at home with the right information and first-aid supplies. If you are faced with any of these situations, scroll down to find solutions to take care of your pet without the need for a trip to an emergency veterinarian.Minor health issues often seen during the holidays include:Mild vomiting or diarrhea: Occasional struggles with upset stomachs, vomiting, or diarrhea are everyday struggles, especially if your pet has eaten a little too many leftovers (even if the foods are puppy-safe). Mild digestive problems can be managed at home with proper hydration and a bland diet.Minor cuts or scrapes: A well-stocked first aid kit will have everything you need to clean and bandage minor injuries like these at home. But keep an eye on it for signs of infection.Mild Lethargy: Is your dog's activity a little sluggish or tired? While these signs may make you concerned, they are often just the result of a busy or stressful day, which is common during the rush of the holidays.If you’re in doubt, use the resources I’m sharing below to call a professional and run the situation by them. They can either direct you to seek medical care or ease your mind that you are doing everything necessary to take care of your beloved pet.True EmergenciesWhile there are situations you can handle at home, there are also emergencies that require immediate veterinary attention. In these situations, time is of the essence.Here are a few situations where you should seek medical help ASAP. Don’t hesitate:Difficulty breathing: If you see rapid, shallow breathing or notice any visible difficulty breathing, that is a real emergency. Get your pet to a veterinarian as quickly as possible.Seizures or tremors: Seeing your pet experience these conditions can be frightening, especially if it’s the first time! If you notice any signs of seizures or tremors, this could be a red flag that there is a bigger medical issue at play. The sooner you get your pet to a vet, the sooner they can identify the underlying cause.Loss of consciousness or difficulty waking up: While mild lethargy is likely the result of a little added stress and activity, if your pet is unresponsive or cannot be roused, this is likely something more serious.Severe bleeding: A minor cut can be treated at home. However, if you try and fail to stop the bleeding despite direct pressure and first aid measures, this is considered a medical emergency.Difficulty urination or defecating: Has your pet started straining, crying out while going to the bathroom, or producing only small amounts of urine or stool? If so, something serious could be going on that requires medical intervention!Sudden pain or swelling: Pay attention if you notice signs of pain. Pain and swelling don’t just happen – there is an underlying cause. While it could be minor, there is also the chance that the cause of your pet’s pain and discomfort is a serious and immediate concern. The only way to find out is to bring your pet to a vet for testing.Ingestion of toxic substances: Some of the biggest concerns surrounding the holiday season are the many things they can eat that they shouldn’t – alcohol, chocolate, macadamia nuts, tinsel, poinsettias, and more. If your pet has ingested something toxic or poisonous, don’t wait. Contact a veterinarian or the pet poison control hotline immediately.By supervising your pet throughout the holiday season, being aware of the signs of an emergency, and knowing what is or isn’t considered an immediate risk, you can prioritize the health and well-being of your pup this holiday season. This will let you know if your pet can be treated safely at home or if you need to seek out options for veterinary care when your regular veterinarian is unavailable.
As loving dog parents, we want to ensure our pups are getting the best of the best – including the best toys, the most comfortable beds, and, of course, the best nutrition. But with so many dog food brands on the market, deciding which ones truly deliver on their promises can be overwhelming.A recent study has shed light on this very issue. By analyzing a massive amount of market feedback and online customer reviews, it highlights which brands are earning – and losing – the trust of dog parents.  Reviews.ai, a consumer data analysis firm, recently published their Dry Dog Food Report 2025 – Best Seller Performance. It analyzed over 135,000 online customer reviews from 2024, covering 26 pet food brands and 89 specific dry dog food products. The report painted a clear picture of what brands are meeting the expectations of dog lovers across the country and which brands are falling short. The report sorted the pet food brands into four main performance groups: LeadersBrands with high customer satisfaction and strong loyalty. These brands consistently received positive reviews, revealing that dog parents were satisfied not only by the products but also by the brands responsible for them. Examples include:  Purina, Hill’s, Iams, Nutro, Royal Canin, and Rachel Ray Nutrish.NicheThese are smaller companies that have a strong customer sentiment. Brands in this group cater to specific needs or preferences and, in doing so, have built a strong, loyal customer base. Examples include: Merrick, Pedigree, Health Extension, and Natural Balance.At RiskDespite having high visibility, brands in this group were found to have declining customer trust. These brands face challenges related to customer satisfaction and loyalty, which may suggest potential issues with their products or brand practices. Examples include; Blue Buffalo, Taste of the Wild, Orijen, and Open Farm.LaggardsBrands in this group were found to have low engagement and poor consumer sentiment. They are experiencing significant difficulties in building and maintaining customer trust and satisfaction. Examples include: Signature, Diamond Naturals, Cesar, Canidae, and Wagg.So, what do these rankings really mean? What decides which group each pet food brand is sorted into? Researchers combed through a wealth of market research and customer review data, focusing on the feedback provided on various online retailer websites. The rankings were based solely on the feedback offered by dog parents. In addition to sorting the brands into four categories, the report also revealed that nearly all reviews could be sorted into six primary areas of concern: Dog Preference and Satisfaction: Many pet parents shared frustration with dogs rejecting food due to taste, smell, or texture. Dog Health and Wellness: Pet Parents showed a higher level of loyalty to brands that had strong veterinarian endorsements and clear nutritional health benefits.Brand and Trust: Pet parents are increasingly skeptical and desire brand transparency. Frequent formula or ingredient changes and the use of vague marketing terms can lead to a loss of trust. Product and Experience: Some of the most common complaints seen in reviews included packaging issues, formula changes without notice, and inconsistent food quality. Price and Purchase: Looking behind the “premium” label, pet parents are carefully weighing price vs quality to find the best option for their pets while keeping to their budgets. Service and Fulfillment: When making a purchase, pet parents want to receive their products in a timely fashion. Their opinions can be influenced by delays resulting from slow delivery times and stock shortages. They may also drop due to poor customer support. This research highlights the importance of doing your own research and due diligence when choosing the best food for your best friend. Most importantly, the best dog food is the one that meets your pup’s individual needs (and preferences). By staying informed and paying attention to changes in the pet food industry as well as to your dog’s response to their food, you can make the best decision for their health and happiness. Join the PetGuide community. Get the latest pet news and product recommendations by subscribing to our newsletter  here.
--------------------------------------------------
A breed standard is the guideline which describes the ideal characteristics, temperament and appearance including the correct colour of a breed and ensures that the breed is fit for function. Absolute soundness is essential. Breeders and judges should at all times be careful to avoid obvious conditions or exaggerations which would be detrimental in any way to the health, welfare or soundness of this breed.
From time to time certain conditions or exaggerations may be considered to have the potential to affect dogs in some breeds adversely, and judges and breeders are requested to refer to the Breed Watch information related to this breed for details of any such current issues. If a feature or quality is desirable it should only be present in the right measure. However, if a dog possesses a feature, characteristic or colour described as unacceptable, it must not be rewarded in the show ring.


Low set, strong, sturdily built, alert and active, giving impression of substance and stamina in small space.

Bold in outlook, workmanlike.

Outgoing and friendly, never nervous or aggressive.

Head foxy in shape and appearance, with alert, intelligent expression, skull fairly wide and flat between ears, moderate amount of stop. Length of foreface in proportion to skull 3 to 5. Muzzle slightly tapering. Nose black.

Well set, round, medium size, brown, blending with colour of coat.

Pricked, medium sized, slightly rounded. Line drawn from tip of nose through eye should, if extended, pass through, or close to tip of ear.

Jaws strong with perfect, regular and complete scissor bite, i.e. upper teeth closely overlapping lower teeth and set square to the jaws.

Fairly long.

Lower legs short and as straight as possible, forearm moulded round chest. Ample bone, carried right down to feet. Elbows fitting closely to sides, neither loose nor tied. Shoulders well laid, and angulated at 90 degrees to the upper arm.

Medium length, well-sprung ribs, not short coupled, slightly tapering, when viewed from above. Level topline. Chest broad and deep, well let down between forelegs.

Strong and flexible, well-angulated stifle. Legs short. Ample bone carried right down to feet. Hocks straight when viewed from behind.


Previously customarily docked short.
Undocked: set in line with the topline. Natural carriage which may be above or below topline when moving or alert.
Natural bobtails may occur, when the tail can be of any length, carried above or below topline when moving or alert.

Free and active, neither loose nor tied. Forelegs move well forward, without too much lift, in unison with thrusting action of hindlegs.

Medium length, straight with dense undercoat, never soft, wavy or wiry.

Self colours in Red, Sable, Fawn, Black and Tan, with or without white markings on legs, brisket and neck. Some white on head and foreface permissible.

Height: approximately 25-30 cms (10-12 ins) at shoulder. Weight: dogs: 10-12 kgs (22-26 lbs); bitches: 9-11 kgs (20-24 lbs).

Any departure from the foregoing points should be considered a fault and the seriousness with which the fault should be regarded should be in exact proportion to its degree and its effect upon the health and welfare of the dog and on the dog’s ability to perform its traditional work.

Male animals should have two apparently normal testicles fully descended into the scrotum.

Size – The Kennel Club breed standard is a guide and description of the ideal for the breed; the size as described does not imply that a dog will match the measurements given (height or weight). A dog might be larger or smaller than the size measurements stated in the breed standard.
--------------------------------------------------
By: 			Author Mutasim Sweileh
Posted on Last updated: November 3, 2024
This site is supported by our readers. We may earn a commission, at no cost to you, if you purchase through links.
You’ll adore the Pembroke Welsh Corgi if you’re drawn to furry companions with lively personalities and storied pasts.
These smart, short-legged pups aren’t just famous for their adorable looks but also their rich history linked with royalty and folklore.
Imagine a dog that fits perfectly into your life, whether you’re in a bustling city apartment or a sprawling countryside estate.
With their sharp intelligence and need for daily exercise, they keep you on your toes, ensuring every day is filled with joy.
If you’re curious about discovering a world of delightful quirks and joys with a Pembroke Welsh Corgi, read on!
Table Of Contents
The Pembroke Welsh Corgi, with its short legs and long body, is unmistakably charming and bred for herding.
You’re sure to find them intelligent, friendly, and full of character, making them beloved companions.
How do Pembroke Welsh Corgis look so charming and unique?
It starts with their compact size—standing about 10 to 12 inches tall, they weigh between 24 to 30 pounds.
These sturdy little dogs have short legs and long bodies, perfect for herding, while their fox-like faces add a dash of mischief.
Their ears stand erect, ready to catch every sound, and their tails are often docked short.
With a medium-length double-layered coat, they sport colors like red, sable, and fawn, sometimes with striking white markings.
That confident stance and wagging tail embody their spirited nature and love for family adventure.
Those adorable short legs and fluffy butt? That’s just the beginning!
Pembroke Welsh Corgis are known for their friendliness and loyalty, making them fantastic family companions.
Their intelligence shines through, but you’ll also discover some Corgi quirks—a bit of stubbornness and a strong herding instinct. This means training can be fun but requires patience.
Early socialization helps them become well-adjusted, lessening potential training challenges.
Remember, these dogs are social creatures; they thrive on interaction and attention. Their playfulness is infectious, ensuring plenty of laughs.
Expect a devoted friend with a unique blend of charm and spunk. It’s what makes them so special.
A Pembroke Welsh Corgi is a lively bundle of joy that brings endless smiles to your home.
As a herding dog, this breed is known for its intelligence and love for playful antics, and like other small dog breeds with big personalities, they require early socialization and training to become confident companions.
Here’s what you’ll love about them:
With their adorable fox-like faces and affectionate nature, Corgis quickly become family favorites.
You might be surprised to learn that Pembroke Welsh Corgis have a rich history intertwined with both folklore and noble roots.
Thought to be gifts from fairies and possibly descended from Viking dogs, these charming companions were officially recognized in the 1930s, winning royal hearts and homes alike.
Pembroke Welsh Corgis, wrapped in Welsh mythology, were said to be gifts from fairies—yes, the magical kind.
In folklore, these stout companions pulled fairy carriages through mystical lands.
Fairies even marked them with saddle-shaped patches on their fur.
These tales lend Corgis an enchanting legacy, weaving charm into their breed history.
Through Viking trade routes, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi might trace its roots to Swedish Vallhunds.
Imagine these little companions journeying from Viking lands, merging with local breeds in Wales.
Meanwhile, Flemish weavers, known for their intricate textiles, also brought their own dogs when settling in the 12th century.
This cultural exchange likely influenced the genetic similarities we see today, painting a fascinating picture of historical records and Welsh folklore combined.
You’ll be pleased to know that the UK Kennel Club officially recognized the Pembroke Welsh Corgi breed in the 1930s, sharpening its distinct status alongside the Cardigan Corgi. Like the Beagles, who were bred for hunting, the Pembroke Welsh Corgi’s history and origins are steeped in tradition, with their working dog traits still celebrated today. Hunting and tracking skills similar to these are highly valued in working dogs.
This breed’s popularity rocketed, partly thanks to Queen Elizabeth II’s fondness.
Here’s how things unfolded:
Caring for your Pembroke Welsh Corgi means focusing on regular exercise and a balanced diet to keep them healthy.
A bit of daily grooming helps manage shedding and keeps their coat looking its best.
So, you’ve learned about their fascinating history. Now, let’s talk about keeping your Corgi happy and healthy.
These energetic dogs need a good workout daily. Think at least an hour!
Remember, a tired Corgi is a happy Corgi!
Avoid overexertion, especially in hot weather. Always provide fresh water.
Pembroke Welsh Corgis, like many dogs, thrive when you pay close attention to their diet and nutrition. Here are four tips for keeping your Corgi healthy:
Caring for your Pembroke Welsh Corgi involves keeping that adorable corgi coat looking its best.
Regular brushing, ideally a few times a week, helps manage shedding and keeps their fur tangle-free.
A soft-bristled brush or a grooming mitt works wonders.
Baths should be occasional to avoid stripping their natural oils.
Embrace shedding season with patience and keep that vacuum handy—your corgi will look fabulous with a little consistent effort!
Training your Pembroke Welsh Corgi is a rewarding experience, as their intelligence makes them keen to learn new tricks.
Positive reinforcement and consistent socialization can help manage their tendency to be vocal and ensure they’re well-adjusted companions.
Training your Pembroke Welsh Corgi can feel like a wild ride due to their intelligence and stubborn streak.
Regular grooming, including pre-bath brushing for thick coats, is essential for maintaining the Pembroke Welsh Corgi’s coat. These herding dogs quickly master common commands and dog tricks.
Use positive reinforcement to tap into their natural problem-solving skills, ensuring mental stimulation.
While Corgis are highly trainable, persistence is key.
Keep sessions fun and consistent, blending obedience with play to harness their full potential.
Tackling the noise challenges with your Corgi involves early socialization and understanding barking triggers. These pups can be vocal when sensitive to sounds, which can drive you up the wall.
So, include puppy training focused on:
After working on minimizing excessive barking with early socialization, use positive reinforcement to train your Pembroke Welsh Corgi.
Picture treat-based training like a pot of gold at the end of a rainbow—clicker training and a solid reward system can work wonders.
Praise and reward guide them toward desired dog behavior, ensuring consistent training.
This method fosters obedience, making your corgi enthusiastic to learn and bond.
You’ll want to be aware of some health concerns common to the breed, like hip dysplasia. Let’s discuss these potential issues so you can best care for your Corgi.
Ever wondered why understanding Pembroke Welsh Corgis’ health is important?
These lovable companions often deal with genetic issues like eye problems, degenerative myelopathy, and Von Willebrand disease.
Early detection and preventative care can save you from the hefty cost of treatment.
Responsible breeding practices, including genetic testing, are your best bet for a healthy pup.
Always choose breeders who prioritize health over aesthetics to make sure your Corgi thrives.
Hip dysplasia and joint problems can be a real concern for your Pembroke Welsh Corgi, but you’re not alone in this journey.
Early detection is key to ensuring your pup stays healthy and happy.
Here are a few simple tips:
Spotting eye issues and degenerative myelopathy early in your Pembroke Welsh Corgi gives them a fighting chance.
Genetic testing and being aware of common issues, such as those affecting teacup puppies lifespan, can help identify potential health risks early. Genetic testing and preventative care can help manage these health issues.
You can also look into supplements specifically formulated for Corgis to support their overall health and well-being.
Treatment options vary, but embracing life with degenerative myelopathy involves adjustments. Think of it as a dance where you learn new steps together with your Corgi.
Here’s a quick overview:
When you welcome a Pembroke Welsh Corgi into your home, expect an affectionate companion that’s great with families and kids.
They’re adaptable to various climates.
Socialization is needed to get along with other pets.
For family dogs, Pembroke Welsh Corgis are a solid match.
Their affectionate nature makes them perfect companions for children, fostering delightful Corgi-kid bonding.
Although they’re friendly and playful, supervision tips are essential for ensuring play safety.
Training kids to respect these little companions enhances everyone’s experience, blending fun and safety.
Remember, their temperament matches best with gentle interactions, making them truly kid-friendly pets in a bustling household.
Welcoming a Pembroke Welsh Corgi into a home with other pets can be a delightful adventure.
They’re generally family-friendly but need proper socialization to thrive in multi-pet households.
To make sure harmony:
So, you’ve got a new furry friend, and you’re wondering about climate? Pembroke Welsh Corgis aren’t built for extreme heat; think of them as "cool-climate" dogs. Their double coat helps with cold tolerance, but summer heat can be tough.
Unlike breeds like Great Danes, who are highly sensitive to cold and require precautions like monitoring outdoor temperatures, Pembroke Welsh Corgis generally adapt well to moderate temperatures.
Regular exercise is still key, but adjust timing to avoid midday sun. Their grooming needs don’t change with the seasons, but you might notice shedding increases a bit in spring. Overall, these adaptable pups do best in moderate climates. They’re pretty low-maintenance.
You might find it intriguing that Pembroke Welsh Corgis are often linked to fairies in Welsh folklore, supposedly aiding them in transportation.
Their royal connections with Queen Elizabeth II have greatly boosted their popularity over the years.
Fairy-drawn carriages and myths color the history of the Pembroke Welsh Corgi.
According to Welsh legends, these energetic dogs once served fairies, pulling their carriages at night.
Picture a world where Corgis were more than pets—they were mystical beings.
Apart from folklore, Viking influence and Flemish weavers possibly introduced them to Wales, blending mythical origins with a dog’s rich history, alongside their cousins, the Cardigan Corgi.
Think of Pembroke Welsh Corgis as the royal family of dogs. Queen Elizabeth II adored them, making them the darling of every royal dog fancier and a hot topic in the Corgi fan club. Notably, other breeds like the Cane Corso, with their affectionate protective temperament, can also thrive in a family setting, especially with proper training around kids. Their Corgi legacy stretches far beyond Wales, marking the breed with a crown of popularity.
Ever wondered about the special quirks of Pembroke Welsh Corgis beyond their royal ties? You’re not alone.
These lively dogs have a fox-like face, short legs, and an undeniable herding ability, making them skilled little shepherds.
They love treats that are suitable for their breed, which can be found in stores selling Corgi treats online.
Their vocal nature and stubborn independence might keep you on your toes, but their double coat and sensitivity also highlight how loving these dogs can be.
Truly, they’re bundles of character and charm!
When you’re looking for a Pembroke Welsh Corgi, it’s important to research reputable breeders or adoption centers to guarantee a healthy puppy.
Pay attention to the potential risks of intervertebral disc disease (IVDD), a common health issue in breeds like the Long-haired Dachshund’s Health Concerns, and prepare your home for the new family member.
When searching for a Pembroke Welsh Corgi, start with reputable corgi breeders recognized for their breeder ethics.
Research and visit these breeders to verify proper practices.
Consider corgi adoption through dog rescues or shelters, which often have adoption fees but provide valuable insights into puppy health.
Shelter visits offer a chance to meet dogs needing homes.
Remember, a little research goes a long way in finding the perfect furry friend.
So, you’re looking for a healthy Pembroke Welsh Corgi puppy? Great! Start by checking out the corgi breeder‘s reputation.
A responsible corgi breeder will prioritize corgi health.
Look for bright eyes, a clean coat, and a playful puppy temperament.
Don’t forget to plan for their nutrition needs, including the best Corgi puppy food options.
Ask to see vaccination records and inquire about genetic testing for common corgi health issues like hip dysplasia.
Don’t hesitate to ask questions—a good breeder welcomes them.
Finding a healthy puppy is key to a happy life together!
Bringing a Pembroke Welsh Corgi puppy home is exciting yet requires planning.
Start with puppy-proofing your space—like baby-proofing but for adorable escape artists.
Consider crate training; it’s a cozy den for the pup.
Begin socialization early, introducing various sounds and sights.
Quick vet visits are essential for vaccinations.
Teach basic commands: sit, stay, come.
With these steps, your corgi puppy will adapt smoothly, feeling safe and loved.
Think of Pembroke Welsh Corgis as the movie stars of the Corgis.
Corgis refer to two breeds: Pembrokes and Cardigans.
Pembrokes have no tails and fox-like features, whereas Cardigans have long tails and rounder bodies.
Corgis aren’t overly demanding, but they need daily walks and mental stimulation. Their grooming’s easy, but they do shed. Think of them as moderately low-maintenance, fun companions.
Imagine a companion always by your side, clever and playful, with a dash of stubbornness.
Pembroke Welsh Corgis excel in loyalty and charm but require regular grooming and exercise; their vocal nature could be a challenge.
Leaving a Corgi alone for a long time can lead to boredom and anxiety.
They need company and mental stimulation.
If left alone, make sure they’ve toys, a secure space, and perhaps a companion animal.
About 60% of Corgis can get along well with cats.
Their playful nature means they might chase, but with early socialization, they usually blend in peacefully.
Just remember to introduce them gradually and watch for compatibility.
You’ll notice Pembroke Welsh Corgi anxiety if they pace, pant, or drool excessively.
They might also bark more, hide, or display destructive behavior.
Watch for changes in appetite or energy levels — these can be anxiety indicators too.
Shedding like crazy? Regular brushing, especially during shedding seasons, is your best friend.
Use a slicker brush to remove loose fur.
A healthy diet with Omega fatty acids can also help to keep the coat shiny.
Your Pembroke Welsh Corgi will love toys that stimulate their natural herding instincts, like interactive balls and squeaky toys.
Similar to other breeds, Pembroke Welsh Corgis also benefit from toys made from durable materials like corduroy. Puzzle toys keep their sharp minds busy, while durable chew toys satisfy their notorious chewing habits.
Apartment living’s totally doable with a Corgi!
They’re adaptable, but daily walks are a must.
A tired Corgi is a happy Corgi—and a happy apartment neighbor!
Just manage their boundless energy.
Did you know the Pembroke Welsh Corgi ranks 11th in AKC’s popularity list?
Their blend of intelligence, loyalty, and distinctive looks makes them a cherished breed.
With a rich history and a knack for charming families, these pups offer boundless joy.
By understanding their care needs—exercise, diet, and socialization—you’ll guarantee a happy, healthy companion.
Whether you’re rolling through city parks or rural fields, a Pembroke Welsh Corgi easily fits into your lifestyle.
--------------------------------------------------
There are two distinct versions of the Welsh Corgi – Cardigan and Pembroke. The Cardigan is bigger than its counterpart, while the Pembroke lacks a tail. It wasn’t until 1930s when UK Kennel Club split them into separate groups for recognition purposes.
Both Corgis are a breed that is well-known for their herding and guarding capabilities. They have the ability to swiftly nip at cattle’s heels in order to lead them, which is made possible by their small stature and quick reflexes – they can easily dodge out of harm’s way as soon as any kickback comes their way!
With their ancient lineage, it is no wonder numerous theories exist as to the origins of Welsh Corgis. One common opinion suggests that Cardigan Welsh Corgis were bred from a similar family as Dachshunds, while Pembroke Welsh Corgi’s ancestors stem from Spitz-type dogs brought in by Celts. It has been postulated that both breeds have been mixed with native sheepdogs to create our modern day Corgis!
The Pembroke Welsh Corgi has a more fox-like face, and is closely related to breeds like the Swedish Vallhund or Norwegian Lundehund. Although mainly kept as a companion pet nowadays, he still retains his strong herding instincts derived from long years of being bred for this purpose.
Pembrokes feature a luxurious double-coat comprised of both an abundant undercoat and a long top coat. Their beautiful coats come in many different colors – red, sable, black, tri-colored or fawn with white markings – and require regular brushing to minimize shedding which becomes particularly increased twice each year. While relatively easy to groom overall, proper maintenance is required for upkeep if you don’t wish to contend with scattered hair throughout your home during their heavier periods of shedding!
Depending on the type of body, Pembrokes boast a range of coat lengths. Some have luxurious coats that are long and full-bodied with extra length in their ears, chest, legs and feet. Furthermore, many feature what is known as a “fairy saddle” across their back – an eye-catching striping caused by various changes in hair thickness over time. It is said this marking came from Welsh legend: Fairies allegedly rode these canines around Wales!
With intelligence, energy and loyalty in abundance, Pembroke Welsh corgis make for excellent companions. As long as they were raised together with other dogs or cats from an early age, these canines are usually very comfortable living alongside them – though their herding instincts often prompt territorial behavior against any strange animals that enter your yard or venture to the dog park.
Pembrokes possess an extraordinary connection with children, but their herding instincts can lead them to nip at kids’ ankles or feet. Fortunately, Pems are intelligent and quick learners, thus making it simple for you to teach your pup not to engage in this behaviour from a young age. They often coexist harmoniously with other pets too as long as they have been socialized properly.
Pembrokes are incredibly athletic and swift herding dogs, who require consistent physical activity each day. Despite this, they make spectacular apartment-dwellers provided that their exercise needs are met. As these pups have short legs and long backs, it’s not a wise decision to expect them to jump on or off the couch – fractures can be quite common!
There are two distinct versions of the Welsh Corgi – Cardigan and Pembroke. The Cardigan is bigger than its counterpart, while the Pembroke lacks a tail. It wasn’t until 1930s when UK Kennel Club split them into separate groups for recognition purposes.
Both Corgis are a breed that is well-known for their herding and guarding capabilities. They have the ability to swiftly nip at cattle’s heels in order to lead them, which is made possible by their small stature and quick reflexes – they can easily dodge out of harm’s way as soon as any kickback comes their way!
With their ancient lineage, it is no wonder numerous theories exist as to the origins of Welsh Corgis. One common opinion suggests that Cardigan Welsh Corgis were bred from a similar family as Dachshunds, while Pembroke Welsh Corgi’s ancestors stem from Spitz-type dogs brought in by Celts. It has been postulated that both breeds have been mixed with native sheepdogs to create our modern day Corgis!
The Pembroke Welsh Corgi has a more fox-like face, and is closely related to breeds like the Swedish Vallhund or Norwegian Lundehund. Although mainly kept as a companion pet nowadays, he still retains his strong herding instincts derived from long years of being bred for this purpose.
Pembrokes feature a luxurious double-coat comprised of both an abundant undercoat and a long top coat. Their beautiful coats come in many different colors – red, sable, black, tri-colored or fawn with white markings – and require regular brushing to minimize shedding which becomes particularly increased twice each year. While relatively easy to groom overall, proper maintenance is required for upkeep if you don’t wish to contend with scattered hair throughout your home during their heavier periods of shedding!
Depending on the type of body, Pembrokes boast a range of coat lengths. Some have luxurious coats that are long and full-bodied with extra length in their ears, chest, legs and feet. Furthermore, many feature what is known as a “fairy saddle” across their back – an eye-catching striping caused by various changes in hair thickness over time. It is said this marking came from Welsh legend: Fairies allegedly rode these canines around Wales!
With intelligence, energy and loyalty in abundance, Pembroke Welsh corgis make for excellent companions. As long as they were raised together with other dogs or cats from an early age, these canines are usually very comfortable living alongside them – though their herding instincts often prompt territorial behavior against any strange animals that enter your yard or venture to the dog park.
Pembrokes possess an extraordinary connection with children, but their herding instincts can lead them to nip at kids’ ankles or feet. Fortunately, Pems are intelligent and quick learners, thus making it simple for you to teach your pup not to engage in this behaviour from a young age. They often coexist harmoniously with other pets too as long as they have been socialized properly.
Pembrokes are incredibly athletic and swift herding dogs, who require consistent physical activity each day. Despite this, they make spectacular apartment-dwellers provided that their exercise needs are met. As these pups have short legs and long backs, it’s not a wise decision to expect them to jump on or off the couch – fractures can be quite common!
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Uploading image...
--------------------------------------------------
