The Pixie-Bob cat stands out among the diverse world of domestic cats with their wild appearance and captivating personality. Originating in the Pacific Northwest of the United States, the Pixie-Bob showcases a striking resemblance to the elusive bobcat. This fascinating blend of wild aesthetics and amiable temperament makes the breed a subject of keen interest for cat fanciers, breeders, and those seeking a cat companion.
These aesthetically unique cats typically have a short, spotted or marbled coat in various colors, with tufted ears, expressive eyes, and a muscular build. The breed is recognized for its friendly and social nature, forming strong bonds with its human companions. Pixie-Bobs are often described as dog-like, enjoying interactive play, walks on a leash, and even learning tricks. Despite their wild appearance, they are affectionate and make loving additions to households willing to provide the attention and engagement they crave.
When considering a Pixie-Bob cat, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Pixie-Bob kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Pixie-Bob cat breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
The Pixie-Bob breed is thought to have started from the unplanned litter of a bobcat and a barn cat in 1985. The barn cat belonged to Carol Ann Brewer, and she named a female kitten Pixie. Pixie became the foundation mother for this breed. While there is no hard proof that Pixie’s father was actually a wildcat, it is widely believed and accepted by breeders.
The International Cat Association (TICA) officially recognized the Pixie-Bob as a breed in 1994. It took the American Cat Fanciers Association (ACFA) up until 2005 to follow suit and accept the Pixie-Bob as a recognized breed. Breeders are still hoping that the Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) will soon start accepting the Pixie-Bob as a breed as well.
The Pixie-Bob can be quite a large cat! Female Pixie-Bobs tend to weigh in between 8-12 pounds, whereas the male Pixie-Bob can clock in around up to 25 pounds! The Pixie-Bob is a brawny, muscular cat, which is why many breeders do believe a Coastal Red Bobcat had to be the founding father of the breed.
Pixie-Bobs may have been created out of wild passion, but for the most part, Pixie-Bobs are a mellow sort of cat. Pixie-Bobs love to be with their owners, but Pixie-Bobs are not considered hyperactive by any stretch of the imagination. These cats enjoy laid-back hang sessions with the family and have been described as “dog-like” in personality.
Pixie-Bobs bond very strongly with their families and love taking car rides and leashed walks with their loved ones. This is what makes the Pixie-Bob an ideal cat for families with children. Pixie-Bob’s ability to bond with their humans along with their patient personas make them excellent companions for children.
Pixie-Bobs as a breed are relatively healthy and not prone to many illnesses. The breed is frequently outcrossed, which helps avoid potential health problems that arise from inbreeding. There are a couple of health issues that still can arise with a Pixie-Bob cat.
Pixie-Bobs do not inherently have many health issues, but basic care is a must for these large cats. An issue that can arise with Pixie-Bobs is a little extra weight. Be sure to maintain your Pixie-Bob’s weight at a healthy point and not mistake it for him simply being a large cat.
Pixie-Bobs have a thick double coat which needs to be brushed regularly to avoid matting and excessive shedding. The texture is “wooly,” like a bobcat, and can be either short-haired or long-haired.
Typically, Pixie-Bobs have a mackerel or striped coat pattern. Sometimes these stripes are accompanied by rosettes, giving the Pixie-Bob that authentic bobcat look. A Pixie-Bob’s coat can be a variety of colors, but are mostly tawny, light gray, or reddish in appearance.
Given the Pixie-Bob’s dog-like reputation, these cats make excellent companions for homes with other pets and with children. The Pixie-Bob’s devotion to its family and overall loyalty make them excellent companions for pretty much anyone!
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!








Share article
--------------------------------------------------
The Pixie-bob is a breed of domestic cat claimed to be the progeny of naturally occurring bobcat hybrids. However, DNA testing has failed to detect bobcat marker genes,[1] and Pixie-bobs are considered wholly domestic for the purposes of ownership, cat fancy registration, and import and export. They were, however, selected and bred to look like American bobcats.
In the spring of 1985, Carol Ann Brewer purchased near Mount Baker, Washington, a unique male cat with a spotted coat, a short tail, and polydactyl paws.[2] In January 1986, she rescued another male cat named Keba, which was very large, had a bobbed tail, and was reported to have been sired by a bobcat.[3] While this cat was starving, it still weighed 17 pounds, and was so tall it reached up to Brewer's knees. Shortly after she had acquired this large male, it mated with a next door neighbor's brown spotted female cat.[2][4] In April 1986, a litter was born from this mating. Brewer eventually kept one of the female kittens, named "Pixie", and after a year started a breeding program with Pixie as the foundation cat.[2]
Over the next couple of years, Brewer introduced into her program 23 cats from around the nearby Cascade Range, that were believed by her to be born from naturally occurring matings between bobcats and domestic cats. She coined the term "Legend Cat" to refer to such cats and has since registered a trademark in the U.S. to limit the term to describe permitted outcrosses used in her breeding program.[5] At the same time, other breeders in the U.S. were working with distinctly wild looking barn cats and collaborated with Brewer to establish a broad genetic base and to develop the foundation of today's Pixie-bob.
Led by Brewer, they succeeded in registering their new breed with The International Cat Association (TICA) and eventually the American Cat Fancier's Association (ACFA). The Pixie-bob was accepted into the "Exhibition" category by TICA in 1993, promoted to "New Breed and Color" status in 1996 and eventually gained Championship status in 1998. The Pixie-bob was classified by TICA initially as a "Native New Breed", defined as "A new breed which has been identified through selection of phenotypically similar individuals from a naturally occurring population indigenous to a particular geographic region" but it is now classified as an established breed.
Frank Ditto attempted to patent the Pixie-bob in 1999, but his application was rejected by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Successive litigation upheld the rejection.[6]
Pixie-bobs are a fully-domesticated, selectively-bred breed of cat (Felis cattus) intended to resemble the North American bobcat (Lynx rufus).
While the average domestic cat breed weighs about 8 lb (4 kg),[7] Pixie-bobs can be somewhat larger, but (on average) usually do not exceed 11 lb (5 kg), similar to a medium- to large-sized domestic cat. Only very few breeders are regularly producing larger cats, which are generally large-boned, muscular and massive in form. Male Pixie-bobs are, most times, larger than females. Pixie-bobs grow for up to four years, instead of one year, like most domestic breeds.[8]
It is not presently known what genetic similarity there may be (or not) between the Pixie-bob and other breeds with suppressed tails, such as the Manx, American Bobtail, and Japanese Bobtail.
Pixie-bobs are said to be highly intelligent, social, active, bold, and enjoy playing with other animals.[10] They are also known for their "chirps", chatters, and growls; most meow scarcely if at all.
Most Pixie-bobs are highly sociable around both their owners and strangers. Almost all Pixie-bobs like to be in the same room as their owners, and will follow them around the house.
Other personality characteristics include the following:[8]
As the breed is frequently outcrossed to "legend cats", Pixie-bobs are genetically diverse and are not prone to problems caused by inbreeding. Pixie-bob breeders use a disease database, Pawpeds, to ensure that health information can be recorded and monitored.
Some genetic conditions include the following:
--------------------------------------------------
Cat Breeds
With a short tail and a wild appearance, the Pixie-Bob cat is certain to captivate your imagination while simultaneously capturing your heart. Even though these cats appear exotic, they are now 100% domestic: DNA testing has shown that contemporary Pixie-Bob cats have no wild bobcat blood.
Pixie-Bob cats are extremely friendly and sweet natured, with a fondness for all family members including kids, other cats, and well-behaved dogs. Speaking of dogs, many families who count Pixie-Bob cats as members compare them to canines in terms of personality. These kitties are loyal to a fault, and some of their favorite games are similar to the ones dogs enjoy. For example, Pixie-Bob cats love to play fetch, they enjoy walking on leashes once they learn how, and unlike most cats, they have a tendency to appreciate the opportunity to ride in the car alongside their family members.
If you're looking for a big, playful cat with an unusual appearance and an outstanding personality, the Pixie-Bob may be the companion you've been searching for.
Pixie-Bob cats can be quite large, meaning they often need more calories than the average cat. These kitties thrive on a high-quality diet that's high in protein and low in carbohydrates, with real meat or fish as the primary ingredient.
Pixie-Bob cats tend to have thick, luxurious coats. While they take care of daily grooming on their own, these kitties benefit from once or twice weekly brushing sessions aimed at removing loose hair that can contribute to hairballs and contribute to excess shed fur on your furniture and clothing.
You might want to teach your cat to accept toothbrushing from a young age, and you may also wish to teach them how to have their nails clipped. Regular nail clipping will save your furniture, your clothing, and your skin. Even though these cats don't mean to cause damage, their size and high level of activity mean that accidents are likely to happen. Regular nail trimming is a big help.
Even though Pixie-Bob cats have a strong appreciation for comfortable beds and naptime, they spend their waking hours engaged in physical activity aimed at keeping you entertained while satisfying their natural urge to run, jump, and climb. It's important to provide plenty of enrichment for these cats. Even if you can't build a catio outdoors, you'll want to provide your Pixie-Bob cat with at least one big, strong cat tower that's equipped with a large platform on top.
You'll also want to provide scratching posts and an ample supply of toys. Focus on toys that satisfy your cat's curious nature as well as those that are durable enough to withstand a big cat's undivided attention.
Pixie-Bob cats typically enjoy good health. Some males have cryptorchidism – an issue that can be resolved with surgical neutering, but that renders a cat unsuitable for showing as an intact male.
These kitties are naturally big, however if they become lazy, they can be prone to obesity. It's very important to provide opportunities to exercise and to ensure that the diet contains no excess fillers and promotes good health.
As rumor has it, the Pixie-Bob cat breed got its start when a barn cat and a coastal bobcat had a litter of kittens together. Even though today's Pixie-Bob cats have no while Bobcat DNA, their size suggests that there might be something to this old story.
The first records of Pixie-Bob cats come from Carol Ann Brewer of Mount Baker, Washington. In 1985, she bought a male cat with a short tail, a spotted coat, and polydactyl paws. The following January, she rescued a starving male cat that weighed in at 17 pounds even though it was skin and bones. This cat, named Keba, also had a bobtail and was rumored to have been produced as a result of a meeting between a domestic female cat and a male Bobcat.
Keba mated with a neighbor's brown tabby female cat and in April 1986, that Queen had kittens. Brewer kept one of the females and named her "Pixie." The following year, Pixie became a founding member of the Pixie-Bob breed.
For the next few years, Brewer searched for cats that were believed to be the result of naturally occurring meetings between domestic cats and wild bobcats. She added 23 of them to her breeding program in all, using the term "Legend cats" as a trademark. Other breeders joined the effort, collaborating with Brewer to form a broad genetic pool. Eventually, today's Pixie-Bob breed was fully developed.
Carol Ann Brewer led efforts to register the new breed. The International Cat Association granted recognition in 1993 as part of the exhibition category. In 1996, TICA granted new breed and color status. In 1998, the Pixie-Bob cat was finally granted championship status.
Most Pixie-Bob cats do not meow; instead, they make chirping and chattering noises as well as occasional growls.
Pixie-Bob cats are highly trainable, and have the ability to learn words and phrases. With positive reinforcement, it is possible to teach a Pixie-Bob cat a variety of behaviors.
Even though Pixie-Bob cats are likely to have come from pairings between domestic cats and wildcats, the lack of wild bobcat DNA means that ownership is not restricted as it is with exotic wild cats.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Pixie-Bob, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Pixie-Bob or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Pixie-Bob, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Pixie-Bob cats cost between $1800 - $3000.
Pixie-Bob cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Pixie-Bob cat might weigh between 8-18 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 10"-12" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Pixie-Bob is 13-16 years.
Pixie-Bob are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
My cat has all the markings of the specks of a Pixie; she just showed up one day and found her self a home!! Love her dearly super smart and dog like follows me around and pay attention to everyone and everything very lovable and sweet but a ball of fire at times Demands attention !!! Chirps and grals especially when aroused from sleep ; starting to turn blue eyes already have
How do they compare to Maine Coons cats? Those are like dogs, too, follow their owners around, etc. I don’t know about playing fetch.
Hey Emilie, there are certain behavioral similarities between the two, and both are described as doglike, but Pixie-Bobs tend to be more energetic than Maine Coons. You can see a little more details in a side-by-side comparison here.
You will not be disappointed.  Yes, they fetch.  Yes, they walk on leash.  Yes, they make the most adorable little sounds.  Yes, they understand commands.
I’ve owned cats all my life.  I will never get another breed.  Simply the best!
has anyone seen a white,blue eyed flamed point simeese pixie bob cat?
Hi Toni, no. A cat with that description would not be a Pixie-Bob. The breed will always have a brown tabby coat.
I have one from a very reputable breeder with whom I’ve purchased before.  He’s also polydactyl on all for legs.  Yes, he looks Siamese, but I have names of mother and father – father is grand champion.
He makes noises like my regularly colored Pixie Bob, and acts just like my regular pixie bob.  Definitely pixie bob in behavior.
Very curious.  Breeder says she gets litters with one of these occasionally.  If cat acted like siamese, I would question it.  He does not.  Definitely pixie bob in behavior – just like my regular colored pixie bob.  And he looks just like all the pixie bobs you see pictured – same build.  He’s a big guy.  15lbs at one year of age.  Supposed to grow till about four or five.
I can’t explain it.  I will say my breeder’s stock is directly from original breeder – Brewer, who has passed on.
Hmm, interesting! thanks for sharing!
We have one. Polydactyl.kinked tail. Chirping sounds. But flame point ragdoll colors
I have one.  Definitely Pixie Bob as looks and acts just like my regularly colored Pixie.  From breeder whose stock originally came from Carole Brewer, breed’s originator.
One year old male.  15 ills.  Dad Grand Champion.  Makes those absolutely wonderful little noises – like chirps, well, can’t really describe it.  Sweet, gorgeous, yes, odd.  Walks on leash, loves to retrieve, runs around like a maniac in the am.  Follows me around like a dog, if I tell him to.
No, I can’t explain it.
I have a white pixie Bon with sable points very blue eyes 15 weeks
--------------------------------------------------
The Pixiebob is a large cat with a stocky, robust build. Resembling the North American Bobcat in miniature, the Pixiebob has a muscular body, pear shaped face with tufted ears, and a woolly coat that stands out from the body.
The Pixiebob typically has a short, even non-existent tail, however this varies from cat to cat and they can have any length of tail.
Pixiebobs are typically short haired, however long-haired kittens do occur, this is also one of the few breeds that allow polydactyl (extra toes) within the breed standard – a maximum of seven toes is permitted on each paw.
Some Pixiebob cats are polydactyl, meaning that they are born with an extra toes on either their front or back feet. This can cause problems as the extra toes may not be attached to the feet properly and  
may not be fully functioning, making them more prone to injury. Because of this, encouraging extra toes in breeding is not recommended.
Social and active, the Pixiebob gets along well with human and pet family members alike. Strongly devoted to their people, this is a curious and intelligent cat who will really love getting involved in family activity, whether that’s filing tax returns or making the bed, as a Pixiebob loves to ‘help’. Despite this helpful nature, the Pixiebob is quite a laid-back cat, enjoying lap time and snuggling in bed. They can also be quite chatty, communicating in a series of chirrups, chirps, beeps and grumbles.
Country of Origin: United States, Washington
The Pixiebob was the vision of one breeder, Carol Ann Brewer, who purchased a polydactyl, bobtailed kitten with wild-type spotting, in 1985. She found another, larger male in 1986 who had similar characteristics, and he sired a female kitten with the requisite features later that year who was named Pixie. From this basis, Carol Ann set out to purchase and breed more cats with this miniature bobcat appearance, producing a breed standard for her new breed in 1989, and naming them Pixiebob after her founding female.
Secure outdoor space is a must for this long-legged, muscular and active cat. A cat-proofed garden or if this is not possible, a purpose-built cat-run, will meet their needs. They will enjoy tree branches and climbing poles and a variety of resting stations around the outdoor area, so that they may survey their kingdom!
Access to outdoor space will give your Pixiebob the opportunity to sunbathe, dust-bath, and exercise, and will help keep your cat in top condition, physically and mentally. They are a theft risk so gardens must be secure.
The Pixiebob will enjoy some outlet for climbing, relaxing at various levels, and food dispensing toys that recreate hunting activities. Surprisingly trainable, Pixiebobs can be taught to walk out on a lead and harness and will respond well to clicker training and food-reward based games. Their friendly and curious nature means they are better off with plenty of human company, so while they will be fine whilst owners work, they will be unhappy if left longer.
Every cat is unique and each has their own particular likes, dislikes, and needs when it comes to food. However, cats are carnivores and every cat must obtain 41 different and specific nutrients from their food. The proportion of these nutrients will vary depending on age, lifestyle and overall health, so it's not surprising that a growing, energetic kitten needs a different balance of nutrients in their diet than a less active senior cat. Other considerations to bear in mind are feeding the right quantity of food to maintain 'ideal body condition' in accordance with feeding guidelines and catering to individual preference regarding wet or dry food recipes.
Whilst the short haired Pixiebob only needs a weekly groom to check through the coat and as a sensible handling/bonding routine, the longer coated type will need grooming more frequently.
A greasy coat is a sign your cat is not self-grooming at all and this may indicate poor health.
As with all cats, regular vaccination and parasite control is recommended.
The Pixiebob is a good breed for families who spend a lot of time at home, and with older children who understand a cats’ need for respect and careful, thoughtful handling. They’ll enjoy playing games and fetching toys, as well as curling up on laps, but as with most cats, will find a very frenetic, loud household quite stressful.
--------------------------------------------------
The Pixie-Bob breed is thought to have started from the unplanned litter of a bobcat and a barn cat in 1985. The whole idea of the Pixie-Bob was to get a cat that resembled the North American Bobcat.
The barn cat belonged to Carol Ann Brewer, and she named a female kitten Pixie. Pixie became the foundation mother for this breed.
In fact, it was in 1989 that she wrote the first breed standard, naming the breed Pixiebob, in honor of Pixie. In 1998, the Pixiebob achieved TICA championship status. Today, the International Cat Association (TICA) recognizes the Pixie-Bob as a breed.
The Pixie-Bob is a medium to large cat that can weigh up to about 8kg. They stand between 25 and 33cm in height.
It's a muscular cat. These cats have a thick double coat which can be short-haired or long-haired. Most times they have a striped coat pattern with some rosettes. In fact, the pattern on the fur is much like that of a Bobcat.
Their eyes are triangular shaped and they have quite a distinctive heavy brow. The eyes are usually a honey color or they can be green. The tail is rumpy or non-existent or it can be a few inches in length. Sometimes the ears will have some feathering at the tips.
They are polydactyl which means that with their paws, they have more than the regular number of digits.
In spite of there being a wild side to this coat, they are amicable, fairly laid-back type of cats. Pixie-Bobs enjoy being with their owners, loving to quietly spend time with their human beings.
They’re not cats that form a strong bond with just one family member, but they are friendly with everyone in the family. When a stranger calls, they may run off however, to hide in a safe spot.
Some people describe them as dog-like.  These cats also have a love for water so don’t be surprised if you see him spending a lot of time playing around his water bowl. This is a cat that just loves being the center of everything that is going on, and yet he has a calm aura about him.
The Pixiebob is talkative, chirping and chattering away as he tells you about what he has got up to during the day.
The Pixie-Bob just loves being around his human family and he forms strong bonds with them.
They are social cats and like a dog, they try to become involved in the going-on of the family. By treating this cat well and providing him with a loving home, he is capable of making you a most amicable and energetic member of the family.
These are healthy cats and they don’t easily get sick. There are always some cat health issues that can crop up with any cat, and with the Pixie Bob, they seem to battle with delivering litters.
Sometimes you will hear of Cryptorchidism in these cats which means there is the absence of the testes or scrotum.
Whatever health issues your cat has, always make sure that you get him to the vet for his immunizations as well as for check-ups.
Pixie-bobs don’t require any special diet.  When it comes to commercially manufactured cat foods, there are wet foods, dry foods and combination foods. You’ll find out what your cat likes, but remember that a cat is a carnivore and that meat is what they eat.
Always go for high-quality foods if you are able to because the best foods are better able to keep your cat healthy.  The nutritional needs of a cat change as he grows and matures and there are cat foods specially manufactured for every season of your Pixie-Bob’s life.
Always ensure that there is a bowl of clean, fresh, cool water available to your cat.
The short hair of the Pixie-Bob means that it will be easy to give your cat a brush once a week to remove loose hairs.
Always get your cat to the vet when he shows signs of illness. If he comes to you as a kitten he will need his vaccinations as well as worm medicine. Your vet will inform you when to bring you cat in for the next round of vaccinations.
--------------------------------------------------
