Cat Breeds
If you're looking for a big, friendly, long-haired cat, the Ragamuffin might be the perfect breed for your family. These kitties are very much like Ragdoll Cats; in fact, they are directly descended from that breed and share quite a few similar traits.
Ragamuffin cats make fast friends with everyone they meet, so long as they are treated with respect. Unlike many cats that prefer to be left to their own devices, these kitties love to be held and will relax completely when picked up and snuggled. They enjoy easy-going pursuits such as watching your favorite shows and movies, napping alongside you while you work from home, and snuggling up with you at night.
Despite their tendency to spend lots of time relaxing, Ragamuffin cats do have a playful side. They will happily play on their own, batting a favorite ball or a catnip mouse from here to there. They appreciate interactive games and their families love their adorable, delicate demeanor, which comes out even when they are attacking a toy.
Because their thick, luxurious coats are prone to picking up debris and because their personalities are so relaxed, these cats are best suited to indoor life. Even though they might be able to withstand cold temperatures, they simply aren't meant to brave the elements or face hazardous situations.
The Ragamuffin cat doesn't have any special nutritional needs, however these cats thrive on a high-protein, low carbohydrate diet that helps prevent obesity. We recommend choosing a high-quality brand with real meat or fish as the main ingredient.
A Ragamuffin cat has a thick, dense undercoat composed of ultrafine hairs that are prone to tangling and matting. These kitties need plenty of attention to keep their coats in top condition. Brush your cat's teeth if you would like to keep them in better health for a lifetime, and consider clipping their toenails as well.
Even though Ragamuffin cats are more accepting of handling than most, it's still important to be gentle as you teach them about these important grooming routines.
Ragamuffin cats love interactive play with their favorite people. They really appreciate it when you take time out for a fun game of laser chase.
Because these cats are so laid-back, these cats don’t view activity as a huge priority. As they get older, you may find that you have to encourage them to play using a feathered wand or tossing a favorite toy.
You might also consider teaching your Ragamuffin cat to walk on a leash. These kitties are highly intelligent and with care, can be taught how to walk along with you. Once they understand what's going on, they tend to enjoy opportunities to safely explore the outdoors alongside you.
Even though Ragamuffins are generally healthy, they are susceptible to two hereditary issues: Polycystic Kidney Disease (PKD) and Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy. Even some domestic cats are prone to these illnesses; they’re common in many other purebreds, too.
Ragamuffins can be prone to obesity; sadly, it’s a common issue among big, gentle cats like these. It’s up to us as their guardians to encourage playtime and provide a suitable high-protein diet that helps preserve lean muscle mass.
The history of the Ragamuffin cat begins with some of the same foundation members as those used to create the Ragdoll cat. These IRCA Cherubim Cats were developed between 1971 and 1994. Famous IRCA Miracle Ragdolls, Honey Bears, Ragdolls, and Maximilion breeding lines all went into the development of the Ragamuffin cat.
The original IRCA Ragdoll cats and Cherubim cats were registered privately with the International Ragdoll Cat Association founded by a breeder named Ann Baker. Many of the cats used in the foundation of these breeds were descendents of a domestic long-haired cat named Josephine who was of unknown Persian or Angora stock, and who had a reputation for producing kittens that were unusually docile.
By 1994, some IRCA breeders decided to strike out on their own. Because of trademarks on the breed names Ragdoll and Cherubim, these breeders decided to rename progeny from their IRCA Cherubim cats. One of the group's founding members, a breeder named Curt Gehm, suggested the name Ragamuffin, and it stuck.
The group initially allowed a limited number of out crossings to domestic longhair cats and Persians, as well as IRCA Ragdolls. Currently, only cats with at least one Ragamuffin parent and one CFA / ACFA/ GCCF outcross parent qualify as authentic Ragamuffins.
The Cat Fanciers Association accepted the breed in the miscellaneous class in 2003, and promoted them to championship status in 2011.
While Ragdoll cats must have pointed coloration, Ragamuffins may be of any color and pattern.
The Ragamuffin is renowned as one of the laziest cat breeds. If you've been searching for an easy-going pet, this might be the perfect cat for your lifestyle.
Ragamuffin cats can get to be quite large. Males sometimes reach up to 20 pounds.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Ragamuffin, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Ragamuffin or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Ragamuffin, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Ragamuffin cats cost between $1200 - $2000.
Ragamuffin cats tend to be large in size. A fully grown Ragamuffin cat might weigh between 10-15 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 9"-11" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Ragamuffin is 13-16 years.
Ragamuffin are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
I love the Ragamuffin cat, I had a Ragdoll once and loved the breed, I’m purchasing a new kitten a seal mitten lynx ragamuffin and would like to see the cat as a adult….can you share a picture
--------------------------------------------------
The Ragamuffin is a breed of domestic cat. It was once considered to be a variant of the Ragdoll cat but was established as a separate breed in 1994. Ragamuffins are notable for their friendly personalities and thick fur.
The physical traits of the breed include a rectangular, broad-chested body with shoulders supporting a short neck. These cats are classified as having heavy bones[1] and a "substantial" body type.[2]
Fur length is to be slightly longer around the neck and outer edges of the face, resulting in the appearance of a ruff. Texture is to be soft, dense and silky.[3] Ragamuffin kittens are usually born white and develop a color pattern as they mature.[4] Every color and pattern is allowable, with or without white.[3] Their coats can be solid color, stripes, spots or patches of white, black, blue, red, cream, chocolate, lilac, cinnamon, seal brown or mixed colors.[5][6] Their eyes can be any solid color, with some exhibiting heterochromia.
The IRCA Cherubim Cats developed from 1971–1994 (23 years) were used as the foundation cats for the Ragamuffin breed and included the IRCA Miracle Ragdolls, Ragdolls, Honey Bears, and Maxamillion lines.
In contrast, their cousin the Ragdoll breed was founded with only the IRCA Ragdoll lines developed from 1971–1975 (4 years).
Currently, acceptable outcrossings are as follows: 
ACFA (Siberian),[7]
CFA (Long Haired Selkirk Rex, Straight),[8]
GCCF (British Longhair).[9]
Ragamuffins originated from the Ragdoll breed in the 1960s by Ann Baker in California. Originally one of the characteristics of the Ragdoll was its tendency to be limp and comfortable when handled, and it was from these characteristics that it got its name. A group of Ragdoll breeders aspired to create a breed that would keep the positive features of the Ragdoll while allowing for more breeding freedom. This breed was created in an effort to achieve this purpose. Thus, the Ragamuffin breed came into existence with its nature along with a wide range of colors and patterns. Today these cats bring charm and love to households worldwide as a combination.[10]
In 1975, after a group of IRCA Ragdoll breeders left, Baker decided to spurn traditional cat breeding associations. She trademarked the name "Ragdoll" and “Cherubim” and set up her own registry, International Ragdoll Cat Association (IRCA). Baker imposed stringent standards on anyone who wanted to breed or sell cats under that name. The IRCA Ragdolls were also not allowed to be registered in other breed associations.
In 1994, a group of IRCA breeders decided to leave and form their own group because of the increasing restrictions. Owing to Baker's trademark on the name Ragdoll and Cherubim, the group renamed its stock of IRCA Cherubim Cats Ragamuffins. While the originally proposed name was Liebling, the name Ragamuffin was put forth as an alternative by Curt Gehm, one of the group's founders, and it was chosen.
In the spirit of improving the breed's genetic health, personality, and temperament, the group selectively allowed a limited amount of outcross to Domestic Longhair cats that appeared to already fit the Standard of Perfection established in ACFA. Later, once the Domestic Longhair Cat allowance expired, outcrosses allowed historically include Persians. The group also allowed some limited outcrossing to IRCA Ragdolls initially (ended in 2010 for ACFA-recognized Ragamuffins). Only cats with at least one Ragamuffin parent and an accepted outcross in ACFA/CFA/GCCF currently qualify to be called Authentic Ragamuffins. (Cat Fanciers' Association, American Cat Fanciers Association, Governing Council of the Cat Fancy.)
The first cat association to accept the breed at full show champion status was the United Feline Organization (UFO), and shortly that same year it was accepted into the American Cat Fanciers Association (ACFA). Finally, the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) accepted them into the Miscellaneous class in February 2003 and advanced them to Championship class in February 2011.
The most obvious difference between typical Ragamuffins and Ragdolls is the required point coloration in Ragdolls, where as the Ragamuffin is allowed any color and pattern. The Standard of Perfection describes the Ragamuffin as requiring a 'sweet' overall expression with large, rounded with pinch at the corner, walnut-shaped eyes versus the Ragdoll's thinner, slightly angled almond-shaped eyes. Adding to the sweet expression, Ragamuffins have rounded contours between the ears and a nose scoop versus the Ragdoll which calls for flat planes. Ragamuffins call for a flatter topline and Ragdolls call for a more angular topline with the raised hind quarter. Ragamuffin coats are to be plush in texture and the Ragdoll allows for both silky or plush coats.
Ragamuffins come in all patterns and colors, although colorpoints are permitted to be registered and bred they are not allowed to be shown in CFA[11] or GCCF.[12] Their eyes can be any solid color, with some exhibiting heterochromia.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Benjamin B, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 3, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Ragamuffin cats are named for their lovable muffin-like appearance. They are large, muscular, and broad but boast a sweet and agreeable personality. They are classic lap cats, known as “Velcro” cats, and enjoy spending time with their owners, guests, and other pets. Despite being attached to their owners, Ragamuffins are content on their own during the day.
If you’re considering bringing home a Ragamuffin, here’s everything you need to know to ensure they fit your home and family.
Height:
10–15 inches
Weight:
15–35 pounds
Lifespan:
12–17 years
Colors:
White, blue, black, red, cream, chocolate, lilac, cinnamon, seal brown, or mixed colors
Suitable for:
First-time owners, busy owners, families
Temperament:
Playful, curious, social, independent, talkative
The Ragamuffin cat is closely related to the Ragdoll, but don’t confuse the two. The Ragdoll breed’s founder wanted to widen the breed’s gene pool to get more colors and patterns, which was done by outcrossing Ragdolls with Himalayans, Persians, and other domestic longhairs. The result is a large, laid-back, and diversely colored cat breed.

Ragamuffin cats are a distinct breed recognized by the Cat Fanciers’ Association but are still rare. There are only a few dozen breeders in the US and Europe, so you may have a hard time finding an available litter of Ragamuffin kittens without a long waitlist. Some breeders may market Ragdolls or crossbreeds as Ragamuffins.
If you get lucky, you may find a Ragamuffin kitten or adult in a rescue for adoption. It’s worth checking local shelters in your area or looking into rehoming from breeders or other owners.

Ragamuffin cats are popular partly because of their personalities. They are sweet and affectionate cats that are happy to relax on your lap or curl up next to you in bed. Unlike other needy breeds, Ragamuffins are fine on their own while you’re at work all day as long as you spend some time with them when you’re back home. In fact, you may find your Ragamuffin waiting at the door to greet you like a dog. That said, Ragamuffins are active and playful, so you will need to spend some time with exercise and enrichment to keep them happy.
Ragamuffin cats are a great choice for families. These cats are laid back and easygoing, which makes them incredibly tolerant of children and busy households. However, it’s important to teach children to play with the cat appropriately to avoid injuries or fear of unfair treatment. These cats love to play and learn tricks, so there are plenty of opportunities for children to interact safely.
Because of the Ragamuffins’ personality traits they generally get along well with other pets, including dogs and other cats. They’re passive and unlikely to cause conflict, but it’s important to supervise interactions with large dogs and your cat to avoid injury. Ragamuffins are still cats with a desire to hunt, so avoid putting them together with small prey animals like rodents, birds, fish, or reptiles that they may want to stalk and chase.

Ragamuffins are a popular cat breed for all types of owners, but they do have some specific needs you must be aware of before bringing one home. Here’s everything you need to know.
Every cat is unique, but Ragamuffins are an obligate carnivore like any other cat. It’s crucial to feed your cat an appropriate and balanced diet for their age, lifestyle, and overall health. Because of the size of Ragamuffins and their lay about nature, they can be prone to obesity. Make sure to feed appropriate portions and keep your Ragamuffin exercised for optimal health. If you have any questions about your cat’s specific diet, speak to your vet.
Ragamuffin cats are happy to be sluggish and curl up near you, but exercise is important for their health. Encourage your Ragamuffin to stay moving with food-dispensing toys, interactive toys, or a scratching post that relieve some energy and keep them in shape. Short exercise sessions throughout the day are all you need for your cat to stay healthy and stimulated.
Ragamuffins can be active and playful. They enjoy time with their owners, so you may be able to teach tricks like fetch or recall. Playing with and training your cat are excellent ways to provide physical and mental stimulation. Ragamuffins can even be taught to walk on a leash and harness for outdoor adventures, but it may take some patience. These cats are not strong hunters and are generally too passive to defend themselves, so they should never be outdoor cats.
Ragamuffin cats have very basic grooming requirements. Though they have long, thick coats, the fur doesn’t mat or tangle as easily as some other longhair breeds. They do need regular brushing to remove dead hairs and keep their coats looking clean and shiny. This also helps your home stay free of loose hair. You should also brush your cat’s teeth each day and trim their nails every few weeks.
Ragamuffins are usually healthy cats, but they are prone to some conditions that affect all cats. Cardiomyopathy and polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Because of their size, Ragamuffins have a tendency to overeat and can become obese, which can cause a range of health problems like diabetes and joint problems.
Ragamuffins have individual personalities, so choosing between a male or female is about your own preferences. Males may be slightly larger than females, but their temperament is similar. Spaying or neutering your cat can prevent a lot of behaviors related to hormones, such as roaming and excess vocalization, as well as reproductive health problems. Keep in mind that some color patterns, such as tortoiseshell, are primarily seen in females.

If you’re set on a specific color for your Ragamuffin, you’re better off getting an adult. Ragamuffin kittens are born white and develop a color pattern as they mature, so you won’t know what you’re getting until your kitten grows.
Ragamuffins can be prone to a condition called heterochromia, which means they have two different colored eyes. This is caused by a genetic mutation and is generally harmless.
Ragamuffin cats are slow-growing. It can take four years for this large cat breed to reach complete physical maturity, which is why it’s important to speak to your vet about when to transition your cat from kitten to adult food to support development.

Derived from the Ragdoll, the Ragamuffin is a gentle giant and a great choice for all types of cat owners. They have an ideal balance of playfulness and an easygoing, almost sluggish personality that are a great fit for any family. They’re also comfortable on their own for long periods during the day as long as you spend time bonding when you are home.
Featured Image Credit: Benjamin B, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The Ragamuffin cat, known for its endearing personality and luxurious appearance, is a delightful breed characterized by their large size, expressive eyes, and silky, semi-longhair coats. While their name might suggest otherwise, Ragamuffins exude charm and grace. These affectionate felines also have a gentle nature and love to be the center of attention. They form strong bonds with their human companions.
Originating as a variant of the Ragdoll breed, Ragamuffins share many of their predecessor’s distinctive traits. Their plush fur comes in an array of colors and patterns, making each Ragamuffin cat unique and visually striking. Beyond their stunning appearance, Ragamuffin cats have a laid-back temperament, making them an excellent choice for families, singles, and seniors alike. Their sociable nature extends to other pets, and they are often described as “puppy-like” due to their willingness to follow their owners from room to room.
When considering a Ragamuffin, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Ragamuffin breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you are wondering if the Ragamuffin is related to the Ragdoll, the answer is yes. Some breeders wanted to introduce new colors and patterns while others thought it was important to widen the breed’s gene pool. Because the breeding of Ragdolls was strictly controlled by that breed’s founder, Ann Baker, a new group formed to create its own breed. They outcrossed to Persians, Himalayans and domestic longhaired cats, to increase the size and to bring about other changes in appearance that would differentiate the Ragamuffin from the Ragdoll.
The name Ragamuffin was chosen in part as an homage to the founding breed. Cat associations that recognize the Ragamuffin are the United Feline Organization—the first to do so—the American Cat Fanciers Association, the American Association of Cat Enthusiasts, and the Cat Fanciers Federation. The Ragamuffin most recently gained full recognition from the Cat Fanciers Association, in February 2011.
Females usually weigh 10 to 15 pounds, and some males weigh more than 20 pounds.
Like his cousin the Ragdoll, the Ragamuffin is a huggable lug who wants nothing more than to follow his people around and sit in a lap whenever possible. A nice combination of sweet and smart, he is often described as puppylike for his friendly personality and willingness to play fetch, learn tricks and walk on a leash. He greets visitors warmly and would meet you at the door with a martini if only he had opposable thumbs.
The Ragamuffin is known for his docile nature. He loves to be held like a baby and will completely relax into your arms. Ragamuffins like to play but are good about limiting their attentions to their toys and scratching posts, not your furniture. It is rare to nonexistent for them to lay a claw on a person. This is a mellow cat but one who craves attention. Don’t get a Ragamuffin if you will have to leave him alone for many hours every day.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Ragamuffins are generally healthy, but be sure to ask a breeder about the incidence of health problems in her lines and what testing has been done for any that are genetic in nature. It’s also smart not to let this big cat overeat. He is large, to be sure, but he shouldn’t be fat. It’s a good idea to monitor your cat for the following common ailments:
The Ragamuffin’s soft coat is long, but its texture is tangle-resistant. Weekly brushing or combing is all that’s needed to remove dead hairs and keep it looking beautiful. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks.
Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection. Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene. The Ragamuffin has a fearless personality, so it’s never a good idea to let him go outside. He has no notion that other people or animals might mean him harm and is not “street smart” in the least. Ragamuffins who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Ragamuffin’s breed standard describes him as a cuddly feline teddy bear. He is characterized by his large size, large walnut-shaped eyes that can be any color, sweet expression, and variety of colors and patterns. One of the interesting facts about the breed is that kittens are born white, then develop their color or pattern as they mature.
Some of the differences between the Ragamuffin and the Ragdoll are seen in the face. For instance, the Ragamuffin has full cheeks and the eyes are walnut-shaped rather than oval. The Ragamuffin has a broad, modified-wedge-shaped head with a rounded appearance. It’s supported by a short, heavy, strong neck that is especially apparent in males. Mature males are known for their jowls, giving them something of the look of a crusty old brigadier general.
The broad-chested body is muscular and heavy, often with a pad of fat on the lower abdomen. A long, fully furred tail looks as if it would make a nice, soft bottlebrush. Medium to medium-long fur is rabbit soft, dense and silky. It’s slightly longer around the neck, on the sides and belly, and on the hind legs. The paws and ears are furnished with tufts of fur as well. The coat comes in every color and pattern. This is a large cat, and they mature slowly, not reaching their full size until they are four years old.
The calm and even-tempered Ragamuffin is an ideal family cat. He doesn’t mind being held or carried around by a child or dressed up and pushed in a baby buggy. He is playful and smart, one of those cats who enjoys playing fetch and learning tricks, and his energy level means he won’t wear out before the child does.
Always teach children how to hold the cat properly, supporting both the hind end and the front end, and have little children pet him while they are sitting on the floor or on a sofa so they can be on the same level as the cat without trying to hold him. After all, he may weigh more than they do.
The Ragamuffin is also friendly toward other pets, including dogs, other cats, birds, rodents and lizards. To this gentle giant, everyone is his friend. Nonetheless, it’s always a good idea to introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.

If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your cat's connection to this breed and 20 others
Ragamuffin cats are well-known for their sweet and affectionate personalities and their beautifully silky-soft, thick fur. When you get home, they'll greet you at the door with a meow and happily follow you around the house. These patient and intelligent kitties are social and outgoing and tend to do well to households with families and other pets.
The Ragamuffin breed has a very short history. This history stems from Anne Baker’s breeding efforts that led to the creation of the Ragdoll breed in the 1960s. Baker founded the International Ragdoll Cat Association (IRCA), which included several cat breeds under the label “Cheribum”. Baker went on to trademark the Ragdoll breed, so in the 1990s some IRCA breeders wanted to found a new Cheribum breed outside of the trademark, which led to the creation of the Ragamuffin.
The Ragamuffin is a robust medium-to-large cat, heavily boned and often with a fatty pad on their lower abdomen. They have a broad head with a slightly rounded wedge shape. Their walnut-shaped eyes are large and expressive and come in all colors and shades. Their medium-sized ears have a slightly forward tilt and flare. Their legs are strong with large paws and they have long fluffy tails with plumes that are said to resemble a soft bottle brush.
Ragamuffins’ silky coats are medium to long in length, and have often been compared to a rabbit’s coat. Their eye-catching coats come in a variety of different colors and patterns. Although their coats are long and lush, they are surprisingly  “tangle-resistant” and easier to maintain than those of other longhaired breeds.
As kittens, Ragamuffins’ coats are primarily white in color, but as they age their coat colors change into any of the many available varieties, such as black, chocolate, chestnut, cinnamon, red, blue, lavender, or platinum, and they often retain some of their white coat from kittenhood.
Ragamuffins are a medium-to large-sized cat. They have sturdy and strong bodies, though this doesn’t prevent them from moving with elegance and ease. Their large, rounded paws and extra fat padding are features that make them all the more lovable.
Ragamuffins are medium- to large-sized cats that can often lean toward the larger end of the spectrum. While size differs from cat to cat, males are generally larger than females. Their big-boned frames and extra fat padding on their tummies also contribute to their appearance as a larger cat. Of course, their long coats also play a role, often making them appear bigger in size than they might actually be.
A Ragamuffin’s weight is often associated with gender. Female Ragamuffins can weigh anywhere from 8-15 pounds, whereas males can weigh up to 20 pounds.
Ragamuffins are among the “gentle giants” of the cat world. They are cuddly companions with a sweet nature that is sure to melt the hearts of anyone who adopts them into their home. These cats are relaxed and calm, making them a fitting addition to  families with children.
The Ragamuffin is a generally mild-tempered and lovable cat that adores attention and love. While one might associate the Ragamuffin's cuddly personality with a tendency to sleep and laze around, these cats are actually quite active and love to play. All you have to do is pull out some toys and watch your Ragamuffin spring into action.
These cats are not strong hunters, so it’s unlikely that your Ragamuffin will bring you a “gift” of sorts, as other breeds may do. Their lack of hunting skills makes them ill-equipped for the outside world, so they are best kept as indoor cats. You  should always accompany your Ragamuffin outside, or even better, train them to walk safely on a leash so that they’re never left to their own devices for too long.
Ragamuffins are considered a generally healthy breed, but some may be prone to obesity from overeating, so it’s important to encourage exercise and play, control food portions, and adhere to an individual cat’s caloric needs. Like the Ragdoll, the Ragamuffin can also be at a higher risk for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and polycystic kidney disease (PKD). As for all breeds, a Ragamuffin's oral health is connected to their general health, so at-home tooth brushing and regular dental cleanings at the veterinarian are important to keep your kitty's smile bright and help support their overall well-being.
Taking care of a Ragamuffin, like all cats, requires time and attention. Learning about your Ragamuffin's specific needs for grooming, nutrition, and oral health will go a long way toward helping you support their overall well-being for years to come.
Surprisingly, Ragamuffins do not need to be brushed every day despite their long coats. Ragamuffin coats need only to be brushed once a week, simply to remove anything that might’ve gotten stuck in their coats. Brushing these cats is quite a painless process because their coats are tangle resistant.
Periodontal disease is a dental disease that affects all cats, so it’s necessary to brush your Ragamuffin’s teeth at least once a week to prevent problems. Other simple grooming tasks include trimming your cat's nails and removing discharge or debris from their eye area. It might also be necessary to clean their ears, but you should always consult your veterinarian on proper ear cleaning to avoid damaging their delicate inner ears.
A Ragamuffin’s nutritional needs are very similar to any other cat breed. However, Ragamuffins have a tendency to overeat, which puts them at risk for obesity. It might be difficult to gauge whether your beloved Ragamuffin is overweight or not due to its already large size. The best way to ensure that your cat gets the proper amount of food it needs is to monitor its food intake. If you’re unsure of how much food your Ragamuffin should be eating, consult your veterinarian. The Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP) also has great resources on feeding and managing your cat’s caloric needs.
Although their coats are long and lush, they are surprisingly  “tangle-resistant” and relatively low-maintenance cats when compared to other longhaired breeds. However, these cats are medium to high shedders, so regular brushing is a good idea to keep flying fur to a minimum around the house.
Taking care of a Ragamuffin kitten is similar to the care you’d provide for any kitten. Scheduling wellness checkups and vaccinations with your veterinarian is a very important step when caring for your kitten. Ragamuffins take up to four years to fully mature and grow to their adult size. You’ll want to monitor your kitten’s different growth stages, which will help you get to know your kitten better and allow you to spot changes in their behavior or appearance more easily.
After your Ragamuffin kitten is weaned from their mother’s milk at around 8-10 weeks of age, it’s important to ensure that they get the nutrients they need with an age-appropriate diet to support their health and growth. When it comes to providing the right nutrients for your kitten, ask your veterinarian about proper diet, including how much and how often your kitten should eat.
You’ll also want to kitten-proof your home  to create a safe, welcoming environment for your tiny new Ragamuffin. This includes making sure that they cannot access the outdoors, where they could be at risk from predators or other dangers.
It's also a good idea to learn about at-home dental care for your new Ragamuffin kitten. Learning the best ways to properly brush and care for your cat's teeth and establishing other good oral health habits is much easier to do when your cat is young.
Terms of endearment. To match the Ragamuffin’s endearing personality, they were originally given the name “Liebling” which means “darling” in German.
Champions of the CFA. The Ragamuffin achieved registration status with the Cat Fanciers’ Association (CFA) in 2003, and Championship status in 2011.
Eyes of a different color. Their eye color also comes in all hues, though the Cat Fanciers’ Association (CFA) breed standard indicates that Ragamuffins with mink coat colors must have aqua eyes, and ones with sepia-toned coats should have yellow/gold to green eyes.
Ragamuffin cats are relatively rare in the world. Despite being such wonderful companions, there are a limited number of Ragamuffin breeders in the United States and Europe.
How Big Can Ragamuffin Cats Get? Ragamuffin Cats were bred to be large in size.  Female Ragamuffins can weigh up to 10-15 pounds, while males can be weigh up to 20 pounds
What Is The Personality of A Ragamuffin Cat Like? These cats are incredibly loving and easy-going. They relish any attention that they receive. While a very relaxed cat, their tendency to lounge shouldn’t be confused with laziness. Ragamuffins love to play and will happily get involved in any kind of fun.
How Long Do Ragamuffin Cats Live? Ragamuffins have quite a long lifespan. They make the best of companions because, with proper nutrition and care, they’ll be by your side for many years. Healthy Ragamuffins can live up to 20 years.

Cat Fanciers' Association "About the Ragamuffin"
FETCH by WebMD "What to Know About A Ragamuffin"

Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
