Cat Breeds
Some cats dislike being held, but the Ragdoll cat seems to live for cuddles. And where many cats are content to keep themselves entertained, Ragdolls actively seek the company of their favorite humans, following family members from one room to the next. Ragdolls are not particularly nosy, but they do enjoy participating in daily life, often observing activities with happy, bemused expressions on their adorable faces.
These affectionate cats prefer to be wherever you are, whether that's catching a favorite show on the couch or working on a project in the office or garage. Instead of knocking over your collectibles, the gentle Ragdoll is far more likely to carefully maneuver around your delicate items. Ragdolls are one of a handful of cat breeds that like water, so they're likely to follow you to the shower or sit on the edge of the bathtub, where they'll keep you company and perhaps get their paws wet.
Steadfast companionship isn't all you'll get from a Ragdoll. These gorgeous cats live to make you happy, often repeating behaviors that elicit favorable responses. With positive reinforcement, it's possible to teach a Ragdoll cat certain tricks and behaviors.
Ragdoll cats have a well-earned reputation for displaying dog-like behavior while offering the easy care that comes with choosing a cat as a family pet. Just in case you think you might miss walking a dog, rest easy. Many Ragdoll cats learn to walk on a harness and leash, and will happily accompany you through your neighborhood.
Speaking of dogs, Ragdolls get along with them just fine. These cats get along well with other cats, too, and they're capable of making friends with your entire family, including very young children.
Ragdoll cats do not have any special nutritional needs, but the focus really needs to be on quality as these low-energy cats can gain too much weight if feed too much of a low-quality diet. Offer a high-protein, low-carbohydrate diet that incorporates real meat or fish as the main ingredient.
Because Ragdoll cats have luxurious double coats, they require regular grooming. Most Ragdoll cats appreciate daily brushing, which not only helps prevent mats from forming and keeps excess shedding and hairballs at bay, but also provides an added opportunity for them to bond with their favorite people.
Teach your cat to accept toothbrushing from a young age, and trim your Ragdoll cat's nails every two to four weeks.
Ragdoll cats love to nap and relax, however they also have a playful streak. Provide your cat with toys, scratching posts, and cat towers that provide them with a good view of whatever you are doing.
Ragdoll cats exhibit kitten-like behavior until they reach full maturity somewhere between the ages of 2 to 4 years. After that, it might be up to you to initiate play sessions and encourage your Ragdoll cat to engage in the exercise that's so essential to good health and longevity.
Ragdoll cats tend to enjoy good health and have an average life span of 12 to 15 years. However, like many pedigreed cats, Ragdolls are prone to certain genetic health conditions. Some Ragdolls might carry a gene that predisposes them to a heart disease called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Ragdolls are also at risk of polycystic kidney disease (PKD), bladder stones, and obesity.
The Ragdoll cat breed got its start in Riverside, California, during the 1960s. Breeder Ann Baker had a friendly white domestic longhair cat named Josephine, who had a reputation for giving birth to kittens with extraordinarily amiable personalities. As she worked toward developing the breed that would ultimately become the Ragdoll, Baker collected a variety of longhair cats of different backgrounds, focusing on excellent temperament, luxurious coats with Himalayan points, and large size.
It is likely that some of the cats that formed the foundation for the Ragdoll breed were Persians, Burmese, and Birmans. Part of the reason for this is that Persians and Birmans are noted for their relaxed attitudes.
Josephine was the first cat to contribute to the Ragdoll line, but two other cats included Blackie (a solid black cat with features reminiscent of the Burmese) and a cat named Daddy Warbucks. Josephine and Daddy Warbucks had a bicolor female offspring named Fugianna. Meanwhile, a litter that resulted from a pairing between Blackie and Josephine resulted in a dark brown female with Burmese traits, who was named Buckwheat. All subsequent Ragdoll generations are descendants of litters that resulted from pairings between Daddy Warbucks and Buckwheat, as well as Daddy Warbucks and Fugianna.
Instead of introducing her new breed to traditional registries, Baker set up her own cat breed registry, which she called the International Ragdoll Cat Alliance (IRCA) in 1971. At that time, Ragdoll cats were not allowed registry by other associations.
In 1975, a group of Ragdoll cat breeders decided to leave the IRCA in hopes of introducing their cats to major registries. They managed to develop non-IRCA Ragdoll breed standards, which were eventually adopted by The International Cat Association (TICA), the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA), and other mainstream registries.
A second group of breeders left the IRCA and developed a new cat breed called the Ragamuffin, which shares many of the traits that make the Ragdoll so beloved.
IRCA is still in existence, however it has shrunk significantly since Baker's passing in 1997. IRCA Ragdoll cats are still considered separate from the mainstream and are not recognized at major cat shows or by mainstream cat breed organizations.
TICA accepted the Ragdoll for Championship status in 1979. CFA granted the breed registration status in 1993. Ragdoll cats gained championship status with the CFA in 2000. Today, these beautiful cats are recognized by cat breed registries worldwide.
The Ragdoll cat breed gets its name for its habit of relaxing completely when picked up and cuddled.
All Ragdolls purebred have blue eyes.
Ragdolls are among the largest domesticated cat breeds, with females sometimes weighing in at 15 pounds or more and males sometimes tipping the scales at 20 pounds or more.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Ragdoll, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Ragdoll or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Ragdoll, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Ragdoll cats cost between $1200 - $2300.
Ragdoll cats tend to be large in size. A fully grown Ragdoll cat might weigh between 10-20 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 9"-11" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Ragdoll is 12-15 years.
Ragdoll are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
I do not have any cats but I want a Ragdoll Cat sooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo badly!
I have two boys that need to go together
My ragdoll came with her brother orange tabby. She would play and play with him when they were little, but after they grew she didn’t want anything to do with him. They were both fixed, so I don’t know what went on there. My daughter loved cooking, so she named them Butterscotch and Vanilla. Vanilla would climb up in my lap, lay her two front feet on my chest, and look up into my eyes. That meant the ‘water bowl’ was empty and she wanted some water. I also taught her to give me a ‘kiss’. It was us touching noses together briefly that was the ‘kiss.’ I miss both of my babies. I had to adopt them out because I was moving to a place where no pets were allowed. I’m sure they have both died by now.
Thanks for sharing about your babies, Maia! Sorry your time with them was cut short.
Hello – I just wanted to ask if anyone has ever tried the Airbolt tracking system with their Rag Doll? Our cat, who is 3 today, was taken a week ago by extended neighbors, as she is an indoor and outdoor kitty. Their syory is bunk & the 2 next door neighbors lied about “taking her”. She doesnt jus5 let anyone pick her up, though, so I’m pretty sure they enticed her with food/treats. I have her back, no worse for the wear, but it is obvious to the family & I would deprive her of her outdoor environment by keeping her locked in. We’ve started harness training and conditional classical trainer with a clicker, which literally started last wk. The neighbors won’t be likley taking her again, b/c the while neighborhood is aware of the situation.
Exceptionally sweet. She is a mouser, and actually picks up the mouse gently then puts it down, & waits for it to run- crazy, she doesn’t kill them. However, she loves being outside, so I’ve been looking at trackers vs Caddios. I watched the 2022 video from this source about trackers, but there are some new options out there, including the Airbol. So, I’m curious, anyone has used one for their cat & like/dislike the product? Any information is welcome.
Hello Stephanie, thank you for the question! I haven’t tried the Airbolt tracker, and I’m not sure it looks like the best option. There aren’t many reputable reviews of this product, and the Trustpilot page doesn’t look great. Hope others will be able to share their experiences.
I have 2 Ragdolls—Coco who is Chocolate and her brother Bailey who is a Blue. They did not get the Ragdoll memo on how to be a Ragdoll cat because they are nothing like what Ragdoll breeders describe.  And oh yes, they are full blooded Ragdolls with the papers to proof it.  Bailey is known as Bailey the Bully, but Coco is sweet. However, I got far more affection from my Tortie cat who lived to be 20 1/2 than from the Ragdolls. I truly believe Ragdolls have the best PR hype machine in the world. I will admit they are highly intelligent and I love them.  Both are 17. and just got a good bill of health from our Vet. But if you are looking for a cuddle cat, go to the shelter.
Our story is unique and sad. My wife is a groomer and had this beautiful Ragdoll she always talked about.  It was owned by an elderly lady who had rescued it from a shelter.  One day, my wife told her that if anything were to happen so that she couldn’t keep or care for this animal, my wife would adopt it rather than see it go back to a shelter.   The lady thought about it for a couple of weeks, then came and got my wife’s information.  Two weeks later, she was killed in a traffic accident just down the street from the Grooming shop.  We received a call from her sister saying she had found a letter that her sister wanted us to have Bentley. She said that her sister must have thought a lot of my wife to trust her with her beloved cat.  He has fit right in to our menagerie without a problem.  I spent 6 weeks in the hospital this summer after a spinal cord injury and he really bonded with my wife.  We dearly love him and he jumps up in my wheelchair to sit with me when she isn’t home.  The only thing that bothers us is that he sneezes repeatedly and often.  We have had him to the vet who gave him antibiotics, but nothing has made it better.  He will sneeze 20 times in a row more than twice a day.  I so wish we could find him some relief.
Thank you for sharing your and Bentley’s story—it is indeed unique and sad, too, though it would’ve been even sadder had Bentley not been promised a loving home so readily. Has your veterinarian given any explanation for the chronic sneezing? Knowing the underlying cause would help a lot with finding alternative treatments that may be more effective than antibiotics. Hope you’re able to find something soon!
I have owned cats my entire life and recently lost my beloved 18 year old Munchkin, Dolly.  After a couple months I sought out a Persian kitten because I grew up with Persians and wanted to share my home with one of them again.  I went to a breeder who seemingly randomly put a kitten in my hands and said “this is your new cat”.  I didn’t know she was actually a Ragdoll and not a Persian until later but by that time it didn’t matter because my family was in love.  I have never had a more wonderful cat in my nearly 60 years.  My Cleo is sweet, loving, extremely affectionate, intelligent and attentive.  Cleo waits for me at the door and without fail is there to snuggle in bed at night. She gets along well with our other cat and Pomeranian. She literally has no bad habits I’ve run across so far and she has been given our Vet’s seal of approval for her excellent health.  What a blessing this cat is!
I got a precious Ragdoll kitten in January. Named her Skye Blue because of her beautiful blue eyes. She will be a year old in November and is the sweetest and my constant companion and sleeps on my pillow above my head. On a recent visit to the vet they found she has an enlarged heart and we have a referral to a cardiologist in 2 weeks. After reading and learning about HCM and how prevalent this is in Ragdolls I am absolutely heartbroken knowing what lies ahead.
I’m sorry, Jean. Wishing you and Skye Blue all the best.
My Ragdoll developed a heart issue but we found an outstanding cardiologist. That was about 5 years ago and she just turned 17,  She is healthy and extremely active and I am so grateful that we have a wonderful Vet who never gave up and found us the doctor she needed. Ragdolls can develop heart problems but don’t give up.
NEVER THINK A RAGDOLL IS AN ANIMAL, OR A PET. THEY ARE FELINE BEINGS!
I have a RagDoll she is sweet loving and very affectionate. I’m very glad I found her. She is very vocal. Especially when she wants food.
The 2 my-ex and I have were ‘foundlings’ when they were just weeks old…11-years ago.  It’s true that they ‘pick-their-person’ as, when we got divorced, the larger of the 2, a tripoint, and contrary to reports that Ragdolls are not ‘very-vocal’ is TOTALLY the opposite and is VERY vocal…ALL the time!!  His brother, a Lavendar-point, was more attached to my ex. and, for some reason, thought that I was the ‘Wicked Witch of the West”, even though I was the one that was calling the same animal control officers to get him out from between 2 cinder-block walls. Oh well, it all worked out…. both are happy and healthy in their own homes with either another cat or with multiple cats and a dog.
My advice, and it’s COMPLETELY my opinion…. if you go to a shelter and find a kitten that has beautiful blue eyes and longer hair (than a Siamese), you have, more than likely, found a Ragdoll.  I am by NO means ‘promising’ ANYTHING as the Ragdoll’s real markings don’t show through until they are about 3-4 years old BUT, even up to that point, if they don’t mind being picked up and go ‘limp’ when you do…chances are, they’re a Ragdoll and your will NEVER be disappointed!
Thanks for the insider info, Sharon! Animal rescues have their hands full and don’t always have the time or resources to dedicate to breed identification but these tips are very useful for those looking specifically for a Ragdoll!
Highly recommend breed – perhaps you’ll be lucky enough to adopt on , as they’re an obscure mix , even for vets – apparently expensive too!
We adopted Fancy at 6 months old from our local shelter . She was white in color with blue eyes and listed as a Siamese but it’s pretty apparent that she’s most likely a Ragdoll . She’s turned progressively darker each of her 7 years , her coat is highly unusual . Everyone who sees her agrees with her name – she’s fancy ! They fetch like a dog , great indoor cats , goes outdoors but stays in the yard and comes in at dusk , sleeps all night . The only complaint is that she abused my 1940s leather club chair but we still love her !
I have been lucky enough to rescue two bonded Ragdoll brothers from a neglect situation. They are both such a joy! But, having said that, I would strongly argue against the statement that these cats don’t really have any health issues. It quickly became apparent when I brought these two home that there was significant digestive-related issues. Both cats have severe IBD and are on an extremely limited diet due to extensive food allergies. Also, before having their teeth cleaned, my regular vet had me have them genetically tested for the gene that causes hypertrophic cardiomyopathy as it runs rampant in this breed. Many Ragdoll kittens just drop dead from cardiac arrest before the age of 2. I’ve spoken to 3 vets, and 2 feline specific nutritionists about these boys and their health issues. All five specialists have said that health problems are extremely common in this breed.
Hello there. These are all good points and observations. I’ve updated the article to include some more specific information on the breed’s predisposition to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Thank you.
My boy, Zeke, has Ragdoll in him.  He’s a big boy of about 18 pounds, but is not fat.  He is not a purebred.  He is the most loving and attentive cat I have ever shared my home with.  He loves to go for walks on his leash, he is strictly an indoor boy unless I am with him.  He acts as if he is nursing/suckling, his favorite place is my neck or elbow pit.  I got him at 6 weeks old, he is now 4.  He is adorable, loving and feisty when it comes to play.  He prefers fresh catnip to the dried variety.  He is a character.
Thank you for the introduction to Zeke!
Our son is getting a ragdoll /tabby the breeder states it is a “ragdoll”  will she still have the character of a ragdoll??
I wouldn’t trust a breeder who tries to sell you a ragdoll/moggy cross as a ragdoll. For one, a tabby is not a breed. Secondly, a ragdoll “cross” isn’t a ragdoll, and anyone who says otherwise is ignorant or lying to you, neither of which are qualities you want in a breeder. Given that they’ve made this claim, I really can’t trust anything they say and, unfortunately, can’t say anything about the qualities you’re likely to see in this cat.
We rescued a blue eyed kitten from the SPCA 5 years ago. My daughter could not leave without her. She was unidentifiable in color, weighted less than a pound, and had very little hair because of ringworm. We were told she had a very small chance of survival. We stopped at our vet on the way home and got her medical attention, and while we were waiting the vet assistant said he knew of a kitten that needed to be adopted that also had blue eyes……you know, just in case………..so we stopped and got her on the way home. Long story short, after months of care and quarantine, our first kitten grew into a beautiful rag doll that is the love of my daughters life. And her sister, the second rescue, is a darker seal point and is the sweetest cat I have ever had. What a lucky day when we rescued our sweet girls.
I had a wonderful seal  bi-color mitted male years ago.   I now have a rescued seal lynx pointed male who was drooling add trembling when I got him, he was SO frightened.  He spent the first 7 weeks after I brought him home under the bed in my guest room.  Little by little (I would visit him several times a day, after the 7th week little by little he took baby steps every day, and each day he would come a little farther.  He now will lie down on command (a very gentle command).  I know these cats are in high demand, but if you have it in your heart to adopt a rescue, I recommend it whole-heartedly..  My last Rag (believe it or not was a stray………..I didn’t even know what breed he was until my vet told me he was a full-blooded Ragdoll.  (we did the testing,and I tried to find the owner..none to be found).   These are the most wonderful cats I have ever had the pleasure of sharing my life with….they are definitely EXTRENELY special.
I was able to adopt my blue point rag doll cat from a human society when he was 5 mo old! He just turned 2 yes old and is the most wonderful cat anyone could ever want! I highly recommend d the breed!
I just adopted a black and white one the breeder didn’t want. Very traumatized. Have had him a couple weeks and he is finally coming out to visit from under the bed. Such a sweet thing. I’m glad we adopted too.
I found my flame point Ragdoll on the streets. Someone had cared enough to neuter him, probably the breeder, but the owner didn’t care enough to keep him indoors. I didn’t know until I took him to my vet that the breed has hip problems which is a fault. That probably why he was neutered.
Really?  Mine’s 11-years old and has no such hip problems…..
Same here. Mine is 13yrs old and she hasn’t experienced any type of hip issues. She climbs, runs, jumps, as any other “2yr old” cat going on 14yrs old, lol.
I want one sooo badly, they’re so cute!
Ragdoll Rescue website
I adopted my Ragdoll cat on a Ragdoll adoption website after wanting one for over 30 years.  He was six and very shy.
Now he rules the house and is 10 years old.  What a loving cat.  I recommend this type of cat for one person.  As they require a lot of attention and love ❤️.
How do you mean that he rules the house? How about the maintenance and caring for their hair or fur? I had finally gotten used to not having cat hair on my pants but now I’m thinking getting another cat. I really wanted one that walks on a leash like I saw this cat do. I think he maybe too high maintenance for me
They do require regular combing to keep the shedding, I call it “Molting” and depending on what kind of climate you live in (I’m in Southern California where temperatures can vary wildly) and will determine how much they shed (“Molt”).  I try to get ‘most’ of him done weekly (he’s a big boy at 16-pounds so it takes a bit to get all of him).  However, I was introduced to an awesome ‘de-shedder’ called a “FURminator” that does an amazing job with the fine undercoat and doesn’t pull the skin or hurt them (do NOT use this in front of an operating floor fan, as I found out the hard-way and had fur everywhere!)
I hope this doesn’t deter you from looking at a Ragdoll….  they are SO loving and ‘snuggly’ (Mine likes to sleep on the pillow over my head at night.)
Take care and stay well.
I have recently suffered the devastating loss of my rag doll queen. These are an amazing breed, they are so different o other cat breeds, they require a LOT od attention ,care and understanding, and back up if necessary. Your returns?? The best and most loyal, trustworthy, intelligent best friend you will ever have. simples. A lot of dedication and care required, and the returns on that are beyond measure,, but the input is major, and the output,, well ,Ragdolls really are the best.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Serita Vossen, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 1, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Ragdoll cats are most known for their tendency to “flop” when picked up (hence their name). They’re also rather large cats with exceptionally docile temperaments. They tend to be exceptionally cuddly with semi-long, silky fur. Simply put, they’re everything you need if you’re looking for a cuddly feline.
Keep reading as we dive into everything to do with Ragdoll cats from their characteristics to their temperament.
Height:
9 – 11 inches
Weight:
10 – 20 pounds
Lifespan:
12 – 15 years
Colors:
Varies widely
Suitable for:
Anyone who wants a cuddly cat!
Temperament:
Docile, cuddly, loyal
Often, these cats are described as “puppy-like.” They love people and tend to follow their humans around the house, which isn’t usually considered very “cat-like” behavior. They’re exceptionally social and loyal. While they do need regular grooming due to their longer fur, they don’t shed much at all.
However, because they are purebred, they tend to suffer from health problems more than other breeds. Plus, there is also some controversy around their floppy tendency. Some breeders warn that some lines may be too docile for their own good.

Ragdolls are an exceptionally popular breed, so finding a breeder usually isn’t difficult. However, you still must go to a breeder in most cases. Finding one of these cats in a shelter or adoption agency isn’t very likely. Most kittens are bred by breeders.
For the most part, Ragdoll kittens are just like any other kittens. Often, kittens “ragdoll” from a relatively early age and are born on the more social side.

Ragdolls are known for their great temperament. In fact, most people purchase them because of their renowned temperament. They tend to be exceptionally docile and affectionate. Most just want to be cuddled all day and can withstand a lot of petting—which you can’t necessarily say is true for other breeds.
Their very placid dispositions make them perfect for homes with kids, as long as the kids are taught how to handle these cats properly from an early age. While many people love their friendliness, it also means that they have a high attention need. They function best when someone is home with them for much of the day. Otherwise, they can get lonely.
Ragdolls are known for following their humans around the house, seeking companionship. Be prepared for their extremely high attention needs before adopting one.
While these cats weren’t bred for their intelligence, they are typically considered above-average as far as their cognitive abilities go. This intelligence, combined with their people-oriented nature, makes them pretty easy to train. They can easily be trained to perform tricks and respond to their name, for instance.
Ragdolls are best known for being extremely cuddly and affectionate. They’re very people-oriented, which makes them great for many families. They tend to bond well with just about anyone and don’t tend to be fearful of children, especially with proper socialization.
Of course, individual cats can vary, even within the same breed. It’s important to properly train and socialize your ragdoll to ensure that they grow into an accepting, friendly cat.
Furthermore, you have to teach children in the family how to properly hold and pet these cats, too. They may “ragdoll” even when it isn’t in their best interest. This behavior puts them at a higher risk of injury by children (and dogs). Therefore, careful supervision with smaller children is required.

Ragdolls are pretty adaptable and friendly, so they usually get along with other pets. However, individual temperaments can vary widely. These cats still must be properly socialized with the type of pet you want them to get along with. A ragdoll that has never spent much time with a dog will likely be fearful of them, even if this breed is technically friendly.
You also need to ensure that the two pets are introduced to each other properly. Simply throwing two pets into the same room and hoping for the best rarely works out in the long run. Instead, a gradual introduction is recommended.
As cats, Ragdolls still have some degree of hunting instincts. Therefore, you can expect them to chase smaller pets, and this behavior isn’t all that affected by socialization. They are still cats, even if they are very cuddly cats. We don’t recommend leaving them with animals they may see as prey, such as rabbits.

Ragdolls do not have any specific dietary needs when compared to other cats. However, they do tend to be on the lazier side, so it’s important to watch their portion sizes carefully. Obesity in cats can be very problematic and lead to many health problems. Therefore, it’s vital that they stay at a proper weight, which may include adjusting their caloric intake.
Look for foods that include meat as the primary ingredient. Cats are obligate carnivores, so they must consume a diet of only (or nearly only) meat.
Cats also tend not to drink enough. In the wild, cats would get much of their fluid needs met by the prey animals they caught. In our homes, they may have a hard time meeting their hydration needs if only fed dry food for this reason. You may want to consider feeding your cat at least some wet food to help counteract this.
Consider your cat’s age when selecting food, too. Kittens should be fed a diet formulated for kittens, as they have particular dietary needs due to their rapid growth. Senior cats may need particular nutrition, as well. However, senior cat food isn’t much different from adult cat food, and the age at which each cat may benefit from senior cat food can vary widely.
Generally, if your feline is showing one or two age-related health problems, it may be time to get them on a senior cat food.
Ragdolls are lazier than most. However, they still require exercise to stay fit and healthy. These cats tend to be exceptionally gentle and laid-back, which may prevent them from getting the exercise they need. Instead of running around and playing like most cats, they may just camp out on the couch.
You may need to engage in active play with them to encourage physical activity. Otherwise, they may quickly pack on the pounds. Feather wands, laser pointers, and toy mice can all help encourage play with a little bit of help on your end.
You can also invest in cat trees and scratching posts. A little bit of climbing and scratching can go a long way. Some cats even prefer scratching overplaying, and they may reach their exercise needs easier in this way. Puzzle feeders can challenge your cat’s mind and give them a little bit of physical activity. It can also slow down how fast they can reach their food, which may help reduce their caloric intake.
Training a Ragdoll cat can be a bit more challenging than training a dog. After all, cats are simply trickier creatures to train than your average canine. However, Ragdoll cats are easier to train than most other cat breeds, as they are relatively intelligent and more people-oriented than most.
We recommend starting as early as possible. You want them to get used to the idea of training at a relatively young age. Kittens are often much more receptive to learning than adults, even if it does take them a bit longer to learn.
Use rewards and praise just like you would when training a dog. Cats respond just as well to positive feedback as dogs do, but their shorter attention span often requires shorter sessions. Cats are also much less likely to follow your command in a real-life situation, so don’t be surprised if your cat suddenly seems to forget everything you teach them. Practice can help encourage your cat to follow commands in real life.
While Ragdoll cats are very intelligent, they may take some time to get past these more basic commands.
Ragdoll cats do require regular grooming to keep their fur in tip-top shape. Their silky coat can be prone to matting, so plan on brushing them every few days at the very least. Some cats may even benefit from daily brushing, depending on their activity level and climate. Luckily, these cats do not shed all that much, so your main concern will be preventing matting.
Be sure to invest in quality grooming tools. A soft-bristle brush and comb will be your primary tools, so be sure to purchase quality examples of these tools. The soft-bristle brush will let you tackle the cat’s whole coat relatively quickly, while the comb helps with removing mats and getting those harder-to-reach places.
Start grooming your cat right away. Even though kittens don’t need that much grooming, it helps them get into the habit of grooming, which can make future sessions much easier. Start with very short sessions and slowly build up to a full brushing.
You should not need to bathe these cats unless they develop some sort of health issue that prevents them from cleaning themselves. Like most cats, Ragdolls do a good job of keeping their coats clean without human intervention.
Ragdolls are generally healthy. However, like any other breed of cat, they can develop some health issues. They are also more prone to health problems due to their more inbred past, which has lessened their gene pool.
It’s very important to get these cats from a quality breeder to ensure that they’re as healthy as possible. These breeders perform health testing on potential breeding cats to ensure that only the healthiest cats are chosen for breeding, preventing genetic issues from being passed to the next generation. Of course, this testing costs money, which is why breeders can be expensive.
There is not a huge difference between the males and females of this breed. Both genders are known for their gentle temperament and cuddly nature. However, males may be slightly larger than females. Of course, this can vary considerably in some cases. It is possible to find a larger female that’s larger than smaller males, for instance.
Males must get neutered, while females get spayed. These surgeries do have pricing differences, with spaying surgeries typically being more expensive (as there is more that goes into them). Spayed and neutered cats will have even fewer behavior differences than intake cats, as their hormone production is affected by the surgery.

Because of their eagerness to follow their owner around the house and tendency to be extremely friendly, Ragdolls are often described as acting more like dogs than cats. They can even be trained to perform tricks and often take well to walking on a leash.
While all Ragdolls will flop to some extent, some have a higher tendency to do this than others. Some breeders are working to make these cats flop a bit less, as flopping doesn’t help them keep themselves safe.
Ragdolls can come in practically any color or pattern, including pointed. There are a number of different Ragdoll cat colors and it’s often hard to determine exactly how a kitten may look upon adulthood.

Ragdolls are known for their exceptionally cuddly nature. They’re one of the more affectionate breeds, making them a great choice for those looking for a lap-cat. They tend to spend much of their time lying around and get along with just about everyone.
That said, this laziness can make them prone to obesity, too. It’s important that you don’t let them lay around too much. Otherwise, they may be at a higher risk of health problems later in life. Encouraging playtime may be challenging, but it’s worth keeping your cat at a healthy weight.
While these cats are relatively popular, they’re still more uncommon than some other breeds. If you’re interested in a kitten, plan on going through a quality breeder, as the chance of finding a kitten up for adoption at a shelter is very slim.
See also:
Featured Image Credit: Serita Vossen, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Kristin is passionate about helping pet parents create a fulfilling life with their pets by informing them on the latest scientific research and helping them choose the best products for their pets. She currently resides in Tennessee with four dogs, three cats, two fish, and a lizard, though she has dreams of owning chickens one-day!
They also tend to choose silence, little throaty hums or chirps over meows
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The Ragdoll cat is a large-sized breed first bred in the 1960s by American breeder Ann Baker. These gentle cats are known for their elegant appearance, docile temperament, and captivating blue eyes. This breed’s somewhat controversial origins trace back to California, where they were first developed. Ragdolls are known for their large size, semi-longhair coat, and color-point patterns, with a silky texture that adds to their charm. One of their most unique traits is their tendency to go limp when picked up, a behavior that inspired their name and reflects their relaxed, gentle nature, making them ideal lap cats and companions.
Physically, Ragdolls are sturdy with mesmerizing blue almond-shaped eyes, and a color-point pattern darker on their ears, face, paws, and tail. Beyond their stunning appearance, Ragdolls are incredibly friendly and affectionate. They form deep bonds with their human families and enjoy regular interaction. Known for their social nature, Ragdolls get along well with children and other pets, earning a reputation as excellent family companions. Although their semi-longhair coats require routine grooming to prevent matting, their calm disposition makes the grooming process easier. With their captivating looks and sweet temperament, Ragdolls have become one of the most sought-after breeds, including Taylor Swift who owns an adorable Ragdoll named Benjamin Button.
Ragdoll cats are known for their semi-longhair coats, which are soft, silky, and luxurious to the touch. Their coats come in various color and pattern combinations. The breed’s fur is medium to long with a silky texture that lies flat against the body. They have a soft undercoat, which makes them less prone to matting compared to other long-haired breeds. Despite this, regular grooming is necessary to maintain their coat and keep it looking its best.
Ragdolls come in several beautiful color variations, each contributing to their distinctive look. The most common colors include:
In addition to color, Ragdolls also exhibit different pattern variations. The most common pattern is colorpoint, where the cat’s body is lighter in color, and the extremities (ears, face, paws, and tail) are darker, with a pronounced color contrast. The mitted pattern is similar to colorpoint but includes white “mittens” on the paws and a white “bib” on the chest. The rest of the body retains the lighter color, and the points are darker. Lastly, the bicolor pattern features a more balanced distribution of color, with a white inverted “V” shape on the face, a white chest, and white paws. The body color is generally lighter, with the points being darker, though not as heavily contrasted as in the colorpoint pattern.
Ragdolls can typically be recognized by their large build, medium to long-length fur in colorpoint or mitted patterns, big blue eyes, and a tendency to come right up to you to say hello. They may sometimes be mistaken for a Persian cat, but Persian cats have a “flatter” face whereas Ragdoll cats have the more usually looking wedge-shaped feline face with an elongated appearance.
Ragdoll cats are known for their gentle, affectionate, and laid-back temperament. They are often described as “dog-like” because they enjoy following their owners around the house, greeting them at the door, and even playing fetch. Ragdolls form strong bonds with their human families and thrive on interaction, making them excellent companions. They are typically very social and get along well with children, other pets, and even strangers, making them an ideal choice for families or individuals looking for a friendly and affectionate feline. Ragdolls tend to be calm and easygoing, often content to be held or cuddled, and they are not known for being overly independent or aloof.
One of the most defining features of a Ragdoll’s temperament is their tendency to go limp when picked up, which is where the breed gets its name. This relaxed behavior reflects their trusting nature and makes them incredibly easy to handle. Despite their size, Ragdolls are typically not as active or hyper as some other breeds, preferring to lounge and relax in their owner’s lap. They are often described as being very tolerant and patient, even in situations where other cats might become agitated.
The history of the Ragdoll cat is relatively recent and somewhat controversial. The cats were first developed by breeder Ann Baker in Riverside, California, in the 1960s. Baker’s foundation stock consisted of Josephine, a domestic longhair whose white coat concealed the genes for either a seal-mitted or black tuxedo pattern, and various other longhaired cats of unknown ancestry that she owned or found in her neighborhood.
Baker selected cats with gentle, placid personalities, large sizes, and beautiful long coats characterized by a Himalayan pattern, the name for the “points” seen on Siamese-type cats. The result was a cat she called the Ragdoll, for its propensity to flop happily into the arms of anyone who picked it up. Later, Persians, Birmans, and Burmese may also have contributed to the Ragdoll’s development.
Baker made many unusual claims about the cats’ development, including alien influence, CIA experiments, and infusions of human genes, but that is all they are: claims, with no basis. Other people had begun breeding Ragdolls as well. They broke away from Baker and formed the Ragdoll Fanciers Club International, to standardize the breed and achieve recognition by cat registries.
The Cat Fanciers Association began registering the cats in 1993 and gave them full recognition in 2000. Most registries now recognize the breed, including the American Cat Fanciers Association and The International Cat Association. Ragdolls are not outcrossed to any other breeds.
Caring for a Ragdoll cat requires grooming, nutrition, veterinary, and mental care. Ragdolls are generally low-maintenance regarding their health, but they require regular grooming to maintain their coat. Their semi-longhair fur can mat if not properly cared for, so brushing them a few times a week is essential. While not as energetic as other breeds, they do love spurts of playtine. They are social and affectionate and enjoy being around their human companions. Ragdolls should be fed a balanced diet to maintain their large size, especially to help them avoid becoming overweight.
Feeding a Ragdoll cat involves providing a balanced, high-quality diet tailored to their size, age, and activity level. Due to their large size and muscular build, Ragdolls may require slightly more food than smaller breeds, but overfeeding should be avoided to prevent obesity. Their diet should include high-quality protein as the primary ingredient, healthy fats, and essential vitamins and minerals. Wet food can be included to help with hydration, while dry food is beneficial for dental health. Portion control is essential to maintain their weight and overall health, and treats should only be given occasionally.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic. Problems that may affect the Ragdoll include the following:
Ragdoll cats are generally known for their docile and affectionate nature, but like all breeds, they can be prone to certain health issues. Prospective owners need to be aware of these potential health concerns and provide proper care and regular veterinary check-ups.
When looking for a Ragdoll kitten, it’s important to find a reputable breeder who prioritizes the health and well-being of their cats. Reputable breeders will provide a clean and safe environment for their kittens, offer detailed health records, and allow you to meet the kitten’s parents. They should also be willing to answer questions about the breed and provide a contract that includes health guarantees. Be cautious of breeders who rush the sale or do not allow visits.
Alternatively, adopting a Ragdoll from a rescue organization or shelter is a wonderful way to provide a loving home to a cat in need. While the breed is popular and pricey from a breeder, many Ragdolls end up in rescues due to changes in their owners’ circumstances, and they make excellent pets regardless of age. Whether you choose to adopt or buy, the focus should be on finding a healthy, well-cared-for cat and ensuring you’re prepared to meet their needs. Here are a few resources to help you rescue a Ragdoll cat or kitten:
Ragdoll kittens cost between $1000 and $4500 depending on their pedigree, color, breeder reputation, and location. While it may be tempting to purchase a Ragdoll kitten at a discounted price, always do your research on the breeder to ensure they are following humane breeding practices.
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Docile and sweet, the Ragdoll cat is popular with families and individuals alike given their friendly demeanour and laid-back nature. They will happily assume the role of best buddy around anyone and will love to spend their day playing with their owners.
The Ragdoll breed can be prone to:
- Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy which is a disease were the heart muscle becomes abnormally thick which means the heart cannot beat effectively. 
- Polycystic kidney disease which is an inherited condition where cysts form in the kidneys. This affects kidney function and can eventually lead to kidney failure. However, it is worth noting that the risk of developing this disease in this breed is lower than in other cat breeds that are prone to the problem.

Testing available:
- DNA testing for Ragdoll hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and polycystic kidney disease which tests whether or not a cat has the potential to be affected by this condition.
The Ragdoll is a large, impressive and luxuriantly coated cat breed. Underneath an impressive silky, dense, and semi-long to long haired coat, there is a long, muscular cat with a broad chest, short neck, and sturdy legs. The tail is long and bushy, and the coat will, in the adult cat, form fluffy trousers on the hind-legs and a majestic ruff around the neck and throat.
The Ragdoll is described as ‘astonishingly equable’ and this is a thoroughly agreeable, relaxed, affectionate cat to share a home with. Rarely do owners have just one Ragdoll however, their beautiful appearance and gentle, languid nature is irresistible!
Ragdolls are curious, and quite inclined to assist in your day-to-day activities, but would prefer to sit on your book or paperwork, or watch from a sunny spot whilst you garden, rather than anything too strenuous.
For some time, there was some hype that the Ragdoll was excessively floppy, that they had a lower pain threshold and would simply ‘flop’ when picked up. Some people took this to mean that they would make excellent playthings for children! This is not the case. Ragdolls are not floppy, and have the same pain threshold as all cats, and certainly will not tolerate being treated as toys by children (or anyone else!).
The Ragdoll is effectively a man-made breed, created in the early 1960s by Anne Baker, a cat breeder in California. Anne used an Angora type cat, a seal mitted (white gloves and boots over a Siamese type colour) male and a solid black cat to produce her foundation Ragdolls.
It wasn’t until 1981 that Ragdolls were imported to the UK by two separate breeders.  
The goal in creating the Ragdoll was to produce a glamourous cat with a very laid back, relaxed nature, ideal as a family companion. It is safe to say that goal was achieved, the Ragdoll is renowned for their super chilled attitude to life!
The Ragdoll will benefit from a secure outdoor cat space to climb and play. They may need to be encouraged to do this, as the Ragdoll isn’t a fan of such horrors as ‘long wet grass’ or ‘nasty weather’ (i.e., ‘not sunny’) so do expect to be involved in their cat exercise, as they are unlikely to do much by themselves! Not suited to free access to the outdoors, the Ragdoll is too laid back to avoid danger, and a sufficiently attractive cat that theft is an issue.
This is a large, stocky breed and they are inclined towards laziness if not encouraged and motivated to play and move. This can cause cat weight issues, so plan on spending some time each day playing with your Ragdoll, inventing chasing and hunting games, and encouraging climbing cat trees and other play equipment.
Every cat is unique and each has their own particular likes, dislikes, and needs when it comes to food. However, cats are carnivores and every cat must obtain 41 different and specific nutrients from their food. The proportion of these nutrients will vary depending on age, lifestyle, and overall health, so it's not surprising that a growing, energetic kitten needs a different balance of nutrients in her diet than a less active senior cat.
Other considerations to bear in mind are feeding the right quantity of food to maintain 'ideal body condition' in accordance with feeding guidelines and catering to individual preference regarding wet or dry cat food recipes. Find out more about cat feeding guidelines with our article.
The Ragdoll will need daily cat grooming from kittenhood, as their coat can mat quite easily, particularly when changing from kitten coat to adult coat, and when they moult annually. Make this experience enjoyable by doing a little at a time and associating the process with treats and praise. Also take into consideration the fact that the Ragdoll cat size is large so it might take a bit of time.
Remember that a greasy coat can be evidence that your cat is no longer attempting to groom themselves, which can be indicative of poor or failing health. As with all cats, Ragdoll cats benefit from regular vaccination, parasite control and an annual veterinary cat health check.
The Ragdoll will enjoy a home with people who are around much of the day, a home with other Ragdolls, and with older children who understand a cat’s needs and space requirements.

Are Ragdoll cats good for beginners?
Yes, the Ragdoll cat personality is easy-going and loving so they will get along with less experienced owners.
What do I need to know before getting a Ragdoll?
The Ragdoll cat size is quite large, so any prospective owner should be aware of this as they require more grooming than an average-sized cat. Also, it’s important to keep in mind that they are very attached to their owners so they appreciate spending a lot of time with them.
Are Ragdoll cats hard to take care of?
Ragdolls are easy to take care of, they just need slightly more exercise and affection than other cat breeds.
Can Ragdoll kittens sleep alone?
Although they are very much attached to their owners and prefer to be with them most of the times, Ragdoll kittens can sleep by themselves too. In fact, you might catch them falling asleep almost anywhere, as long as it’s a comfy and soft spot.
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your cat's connection to this breed and 20 others
Ragdolls are blue-eyed beauties known for their affectionate nature and tendency to go “limp like a ragdoll” when carried. They make wonderful family pets and get along well with other cats and dogs.
The Ragdoll is considered one of the world's largest cat breeds, along with the Maine Coon, with an average weight that ranges from 10 to 15 pounds. These friendly felines are semi-longhaired, blue-eyed, colorpoint cats that come in in a variety of coat patterns, colors, and colorpoint combinations. The four patterns include bi-color, van, mitted, and colorpoint. These patterns come in blue, seal, chocolate, lilac, cream, and red colors and colorpoint can be solid, lynx, tortie, or a combination of tortie and lynx called "torbie".
The Ragdoll is native to the United States. It is said to have originated in California during the 1960s when breeder Ann Baker bred Josephine, a free-roaming domestic white longhaired cat, with other free-roaming cats in her neighborhood. As she continued her breeding program, Ann selected cats with speciﬁc aesthetic qualities and temperaments to create what we know today as the Ragdoll. Though there is no way to know, some believe that Josephine may have possibly been a hybrid of a Persian, Birman, or Siamese.
These elegant kitties are easygoing, calm, sweet-natured, and known to enjoy cuddles. They exhibit quirky behaviors such as drinking water from the faucet or going "limp like a ragdoll" when held. They are the ultimate lap cat, and their docile manner makes them perfect companions for families with children or other pets.
The Ragdoll is a strong, robust breed that can live a long and healthy life when nurtured properly. These cats are, however, at a higher risk for developing feline infectious peritonitis (FIP) and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). HCM can be caused by several genetic mutations that have been identiﬁed in about 20 percent of Ragdolls.
Ragdolls love to be picked up and cuddled. While many cats may only enjoy the occasional cuddle, it is uncommon for cats to love being held. A Ragdoll, however, is relaxed and floppy when picked up—a true reflection of their name!
Their eyes are always a piercing blue. Although Ragdolls come in a range of colors and patterns, their eyes are always blue. This is influenced by the same temperature-sensitive mutation in the tyrosinase (TYR) gene that encodes for the color-pointed coat.
They are one of the largest domestic cats. According to the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA), Ragdolls, together with Maine Coons, are the two largest registered breeds. Next in line is the beautiful Norwegian Forest Cat.
Ragdolls are known as both the 'lap cats' and 'puppy cats'. Because of their cuddly personality and unusual friendliness, they are often referred to as the ideal lap cat that many of us dream about. But because of their docile, calm, playful, and silly personality, they are also often called puppy cats. Yes, they are that purrfect!
The world's longest-living Janus cat was a Ragdoll. A Janus cat is a cat with two faces. The world's longest living Janus cat was a Ragdoll named Frank and Louie. He had two functioning right and left eyes, one central blind eye, two noses, and two mouths. His deformity was caused by disprosopia, and he was rescued from euthanization by Marty Stevens, who was a veterinary nurse at the time. Thanks to Marty, he ended up living for 15 years before passing away in 2014.

Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
