LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Thinking of owning a Redbone Coonhound and would like to know if Redbone Coonhounds are safe with cats?
Find out all about Redbone Coonhound cat friendliness and how to make your Redbone Coonhound get along better with felines on this page.



A typical misconception a lot of individuals make is thinking that all pet dogs hate felines and all felines dislike pet dogs. This isn’t real and there are plenty of pet dog breeds that get along with felines. Dogs that aren’t naturally feline friendly can likewise be trained to be more safe around felines.
From the opinion of experienced Redbone Coonhound dog experts, Redbone Coonhound dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of how safe they are with cats.



Regardless of the mistaken belief, a lot of canines and felines can cohabit in harmony. Follow these easy to follow steps to know how to best introduce your Redbone Coonhound with a feline.


Not all Redbone Coonhounds hate felines, some get along with them. When Redbone Coonhounds do hate felines, of the most typical factor is quite straightforward. Like all canines, Redbone Coonhounds still hold onto a few of the hunting impulses that they were originally bred for. This is why Redbone Coonhounds like chasing all moving things, whether it’s a toy, mouse, or a feline.
Because many cats will run away when they come across, it’s simple to see why they are understood for not getting along with each other. Redbone Coonhounds actually delight in chasing cats not since they dislike them, however mainly because a fast running animal activates a strong, natural behavioral instinct to chase overcomes any training or socialisation.


Teaching your Redbone Coonhound to quit chasing after cats requires time, training and consistency, but the benefit of not having to fret about them always going after is very well worth it. Here are the points of how to stop your Redbone Coonhound from chasing felines.


The very best method to guarantee your Redbone Coonhound would never kill a feline is to raise them with felines when they’re a pup prior to 3 months old. At this age, they will usually wish to play with the felines and won’t see them as prey.
If your Redbone Coonhound has eliminated a feline previously, its ideal if you keep them in an open, fenced off area. When taking them for strolls try to prevent going after dusk and before dawn since that’s when cats are most active and likely to be wandering the streets.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
Redbone coonhounds are much a favorite to dog lovers and many plans to own these dogs. But sometimes not getting enough information about the dog’s natural and general instinct may result in confusion and chaos when it is brought to the house.
If you are living with some other pets, then you should always be cautious about the dog you will be bringing in as not all breeds of dogs get mixed with smaller pets or another breed of dogs. Redbone coonhounds are basically hunting dogs as they were used earlier for hunting raccoons from the farms or fields. So it is quite obvious that they may not like the presence of the cats at your house.
But does that mean you will not be able to bring a redbone coonhound which you were planning to adopt for a long? Not really, let us discuss the matter in detail.
Contents
Redbone coonhounds are otherwise quiet-natured dogs and they do not act aggressively in general. Smaller creatures often arouse the hunting instinct inside them and they can try to catch it to get hold of it.  Some redbone coonhounds are habituated with hunting or attacking the cats and they cannot learn to befriend the feline ones.
But if you have adopted redbone coonhound from the puppy stage then you can help it to learn to cohabit with cats, which are other pets in your house. When they will understand that the cat is a family member then they will not bother to attack it.

When you bring a puppy redbone coonhound then it will learn all the habits and rules from your house and the environment. But when you adopt one redbone coonhound from the dog shelter then it becomes much more difficult for the dog to get adjusted with the cats, if there are any, in the family.
This happens due to the reason that the redbone coonhound has prior experience of hunting cats. Once they learn that cats are their prey, it becomes difficult to teach them otherwise. Redbone coonhounds are independent thinkers and they like the owner to support it on their activities, once they get mature.
Redbone coonhounds are basically friendly natured dogs and they are also much laidback. They like to roam in the house or just keep lying somewhere. So chances are if they are brought up with the house cats they will not mind their presence around them.
In fact, when grown up with cats, they can act friendly with those pets. They can play and spend time with cats without harming them. They have loveable nature and that can be seen in their playfulness with other pets of the house, once they understand that those are family members.
The owners of the redbone coonhound should be cautious of the dog’s behavior when they are going for walk. If your dog is not habituated with the cats and if there is no cat at your house then the coonhound may not feel friendly or comfortable around the cats.
In case of taking the dog for a walk, using a leash is necessary anyhow. It helps the owner to decide the direction and also makes the dog understand that the owner is the leader. If you have any chance of meeting cats or other pets of your neighbors in the walk then you must not forget to use the leash on your redbone coonhound. This will help the coonhound to be patient and calm even when it sees cats in its way.
The female cones are usually not much happy with the cats around them but the male redbone coonhounds are seen to be friendlier and happier in nature. They are also more patient and they can mix with the cats. But in any case, they are not adjusted in living with cats then you should take caution and stay around the dogs when they are facing the cats.
The matured cats, if they are adopted before the redbone coonhounds, can act with much gravity and they can act aloof when the dog is around them. They will not act friendly and come forward to play with dogs. But they will also not mind the presence of the redbone coonhounds.
Cats are not much aggressive towards the dogs and they will not make any fuss about the dogs. Unless redbone coonhounds are attacking and offensive towards the cats, there will not be any chance of an accident.
Like humans, dogs have their individualistic nature. Not all redbone coonhounds have the predominant nature of hunting and not all of them act friendly with the cats in their house or in their neighborhood. Most of the redbone coonhounds are much friendly and they do not act fiercely when they see cats around them.
Sometimes redbone coonhounds act normally and sometimes they act aggressively. This is not a matter of worry when you have a cat and wish to get a redbone coonhound. You can always train the dog and turn it into a friendly creature if it is already not so.
Managing the redbone coonhound is not a very difficult thing but it is surely a tricky task. You have to act with dominance from the beginning so it can understand and accepts that you are its master. If you are too pampering towards your dog then chances are, it will feel more dominating.
At this stage, if you bring home a cat it will be much disturbing to the dog. It may start attacking it as it has the dominating power in the house. Unless you groom the dog well and make sure that it understands your superiority and mastership over it, it will not be adjusted with the presence of other pets like cats.
When it comes to defining the relation between the cats and the redbone coonhounds, the nature of both the creatures should come into focus. Cats, if adopted prior to the redbone coonhounds may not like the presence of the redbone coonhound puppy. The reason is, that aged cats usually like to have a peaceful existence and they do not prefer to be around some creature that is bouncy and playful like a puppy. If the cat is a young one then it can find a playmate in the redbone coonhound.
However, if the redbone coonhound is present there and then you bring the cat into the family, and then in most cases, the dog will act lovingly towards the new family member. You can expect it to be curious towards the cat. You need to be cautious though and do not leave the cat and dog alone when there is no one to supervise them.
If you have adopted a coonhound earlier and then planning to bring in a cat in the family then wait till the coonhound becomes at least 2 years of age. Redbone coonhound puppies calm down at the age of 2 years as they are quite slow in getting matured.
If you have any plan of adopting a cat after bringing the coonhound home then it will be the right decision to bring the cat home after the dog becomes sufficiently matured. Unless the dog is matured and calmed down you will not be able to direct it and train it. The coonhound should be well trained before it meets any small creature as part of its family.
Simple directions like “sit”, “run”, “quit”, “leave” should be followed by redbone coonhound before it gets adjusted with the cat in the house. The training should start from the age of 8 weeks and it will continue until it becomes 2 years of age.
The help that you will get from teaching the basic directions and guiding to the redbone coonhound is if the dog and the cat get into any kind of chaos or fight you can manage them by calling the directions to the dog. Also, it has been seen that dogs are better learners of directions. So you can easily handle the creatures and no one will be hurt in such situations.
The nature of the redbone coonhound and their genes are to be blamed when you think of their offensive and aggressive nature towards cats or some other small creatures. As we have mentioned earlier in this guide, they are hunting dogs and scenthounds who follow their nose to find something to hunt.
Coonhounds, though not all of them can be attacking when they see cats around them as they feel it is their duty to catch and kill these small creatures. So you should hire a good trainer or train the dog yourself before you keep it with a cat.
More:
Dr. Anna is certified, professional Veterinary Doctor. She have been a practicing Veterinarian for more than 2 years. She loves to write and educate pet owners about proper care and healthy lifestyles for their pets.
Mypetcarejoy.com is a free source of expert and researched information on pets, providing useful information on the food, tips and tools that will help you to take care of your Pet.
Follow Us
© 2020 Mypetcarejoy - Premium tips for your Pet Care.
© 2020 Mypetcarejoy - Premium tips for your Pet Care.
--------------------------------------------------
As you can tell from its name, the Redbone Coonhound is a breed made famous by hunting raccoon and a few other animals. In fact, this is what it was originally bred for, having first been an “unofficial” breed in the American south for a number of years. This was before people serious about hunting wanted not only a superior Redbone Coonhound in terms of athleticism, but in coat color and overall breed quality. The result is the modern-day Redbone Coonhound, an excellent companion for families and a dog with keen hunting instincts that have also been measured against bears and cougars.

What’s interesting about the Redbone Coonhound is just how well-suited it is for a number of households and family types. A good dog to have around children and sturdy enough to enjoy farm life and the outdoors, the Redbone Coonhound can make a highly versatile breed that brings a lot of joy to a family in so many ways.

In this brief profile of the Redbone Coonhound breed, you’ll find out all sorts of information regarding its origins, pedigree, temperament, and overall needs as a pet. The Redbone Coonhound might be just what you’re looking for.

What’s interesting about the Redbone Coonhound is just how well-suited it is for a number of households and family types.


As mentioned, the American south was the real breeding ground for the Redbone Coonhound, as smoking raccoons out of crops and big-game hunting were popular pastimes that included the use of companion and hunting dogs. The Redbone Coonhound grew out of a more generic standard of “hound” that generally was used for hunting raccoon until breeders started taking this type of dog more seriously and bred them for improved hunting abilities and overall appearance.

The result is the modern-day Redbone Coonhound, and it has been around long enough that the American Kennel Club officially recognized the breed in 1904, far ahead of many popular breeds in the United States today. The Redbone Coonhound has also seen good breeding in terms of personality and temperament, making it a very good companion and loyal friend.

Although this is a breed that can trace its roots to a number of dogs similar to the Redbone Coonhound, a direct ancestor of the Redbone is the Foxhound, a similar hunting dog that had instincts ideal for also hunting raccoons in addition to foxes. The Foxhound was bred with dogs to produce the reddish quality of the Redbone Coonhound’s coat, and since the turn of the century, the Redbone Coonhound has seen a relatively stable pedigree, aided by the aforementioned recognition of the American Kennel Club.

To go back even earlier, Redbone Coonhounds can trace their roots to Scottish dogs and red foxhounds brought over before the 19th century, though they certainly would have had a number of different qualities than the Redbone Coonhounds of today.




A strong hunting breed known for being able to take out small animals – and even large ones – this dog will enjoy fresh meat of different varieties, from poultry to beef. Meat should be mixed in with whole, nutritious food aimed at giving the dog a healthy coat and satiating its appetite.

Redbone Coonhounds take well to training, and are so versatile and athletic that they can accomplish a high variety of tasks.


Redbone Coonhounds take well to training, and are so versatile and athletic that they can accomplish a high variety of tasks. Giving them tasks to fulfill – from swimming to hunting – can help it not only feel fulfilled, but help it feel like it plays a role in your pack. Every dog should certainly feel this way about humans, but should be trained with the discipline to realize that its role is subservient to every human in the house.


Weighing 50-70 pounds, this is a sturdy, hearty breed with plenty of force behind its bark. But given its overall friendliness, that shouldn’t be a worry… unless you’re an unwelcome raccoon.

This dog is very friendly, gets along well with children, and is eager to perform tasks that it understands. When given these tasks, it can show a high level of determination and eagerness that excites owners who love the outdoors. They are great hunters and will display these strong instincts when out in the wild. This can make them a little tricky to handle around other animals, but properly socialized, this should not be a problem.


Problems with hip dysplasia affect this dog, but that is not uncommon and they have few other health problems, making them generally pleasant around veterinarians.


Your Redbone Coonhound will live around 11 to 15 years.


Capable of a lot of exercise – and indeed, they were bred that way – this is a great outdoor dog and a good companion for someone who wants to get plenty of vigorous exercise. If you’re looking for a low-maintenance dog that likes to lay around the house, this is not your breed.

This dog is very friendly, gets along well with children, and is eager to perform tasks that it understands.


The American Kennel Club echoes much of the information you find here, saying “known for its flashy red coat, the Redbone Coonhound is a versatile worker and possesses the ability to hunt and swim over a variety of terrain while still maintaining its speed and agility.”


Known for its bright reddish sheen, the coat of the Redbone Coonhound makes it very attractive for a dog known for athleticism. A light shedder, occasional brushing is really the only regular grooming you’ll need for this dog, so it’s relatively low-maintenance in that department.


Puppies should be raised not only to socialize well with people, but to get along with other animals. Because this breed has been used a lot to hunt other animals, it can have some peculiar instincts when it comes to other animals, but nothing that it should be unable to handle around a regular household.

Photo credit: Tim Chilcott; Amy Lawson/Wikimedia
Amy Tokic, Editor of PetGuide.com, is a passionate animal lover and proud pet parent of Oscar, a Shih Tzu/Chihuahua cross, and Zed, a Japanese Chin. Her love of animals began in kindergarten, when she brought her stuffed dog Snoopy into class with her every day. Now, she writes about her adventures in pet ownership and tirelessly researches products, news and health related issues she can share with other animal enthusiasts. In her free time, Amy loves perusing used book and record stores, obsessing over the latest pet products available and chasing squirrels with wild abandon (a habit attributed to spending too much time with her pooches).
More by Amy Tokic
We&rsquo;re all about being proud Americans. In fact, to celebrate the U.S.A., we want to introduce you to the top 10 dog breeds that are made in America.
So beyond the fact they&rsquo;re dogs, what does a terrier, a spaniel, a hound and a retriever have in common? Well, if their names start with Boston, American Water, Red Coon and Chesapeake Bay, they are a breed developed in the good old U.S. of A. Yes, America has produced some pretty impressive breeds that we all know and love&hellip; as well as few that may come as a surprise.
 Australian Shepherd
Redbone Retriever Basics
The Redbone Retriever is a wonderful mix of three different dog breeds: the sweet-natured Golden Retriever, the easygoing Labrador Retriever and the friendly Redbone Coonhound. Together, the personalities of these three breeds make for a wonderful four-legged family member that gets along well with kids and, in spite of the high prey drive of the Coonhound, with cats and other pets when socialized &ndash; though the urge to chase may present from time to time. Overall, this dog thrives on human interaction and considers himself an integral part of his family, which means he needs to be in a home where he is not left alone for long periods of time. With Goldens known to suffer from separation anxiety, this pooch may pick up destructive habits such as barking, chewing and digging if he becomes anxious, bored or restless.
The friendly Redbone Retriever brings together the sweet-natured Golden Retriever, the easygoing Labrador Retriever and the keen-to-please Redbone Coonhound.
Origin
Dogs jumping on people may seem like a sign of excitement and affection, but it can be problematic, especially for children, elderly individuals, or anyone uncomfortable with an energetic greeting. Fortunately, with the right training and consistency, you can teach your dog to greet people more politely.Why Do Dogs Jump?Jumping is a natural behavior for dogs. Puppies often jump on their mother to get attention, and many dogs continue this behavior with humans. If jumping is reinforced - whether by petting, talking, or even pushing the dog away - it becomes a learned habit. The key to stopping this behavior is to teach an alternative, more acceptable way to greet people.Training Techniques to Prevent JumpingOne of the most effective ways to stop your dog from jumping is to ignore the behavior. Dogs often jump for attention, so turning away, crossing your arms, and avoiding eye contact can teach them that jumping doesn't get the reaction they seek. Instead, reward them only when they have all four paws on the ground. Reinforcing calm behavior with  treats and praise will help them understand what is expected.
(Photo credit: Nadia Cruzova / Shutterstock.com)While my Schnoodles aren’t exactly small dogs, they are a little shorter than one might consider to be medium-sized. And as they get older and can’t launch themselves onto my bed with anything close to a modicum of dignity, it’s clear they need a little assistance. In short (no pun intended), I’m thinking stairs that are configured for dogs with slightly shorter legs are in order.To be clear, I don’t mind lifting them up and onto the bed. However, my one pooch gets restless at night and, within 20 minutes, wants to jump down. It’s hard on her joints and is sleep-defying for me as she paces back and forth across my bed looking for that single sweet spot on the floor where she can comfortably land.What to do? Everyone told me to buy a set of those soft dog steps so they can easily ascend and descend. Now, it sounds like a no-brainer, yet I kept hearing from other pet parents that their dogs refused to use them. For me, that means I’m about to start searching for something that isn’t too daunting for my gals to use.Narrowing Down the OptionsWas I looking for plush steps? Or something harder that might offer a greater sense of stability. Maybe a ramp or “ladder” style design? And did I want something I could fold up and tuck under the bed to save space? What about that sloped design that looks like a ramp/step combo? So many options.For dogs unable to jump up but are still cool with stairs, one of the multi-step options might be the golden ticket. I’m thinking it might be a more natural transition for them than say a ramp.
Designer dogs, or hybrid dogs, are a mix of two purebreds. Unlike mutts, you’ll know which breeds make up a designer dog. But, like any mixed breed dog, puppies will inherit the diverse traits of their parents, so there can be variations in temperament, coat, and other features, and this can make it a bit challenging to predict what these dogs will be like. Today, there are many highly sought-after designer dog breeds, whether they’re beloved for their looks, personality, or eagerness to work. Below are five designer dogs that have a lot to offer.
Research shows that a strong, loving relationship with our pets is more important to them than what type of person you are.
The holiday season is nearly here! Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Year—these festive celebrations bring joy, delicious food, and cherished moments with loved ones. But amidst the laughter and excitement, the hustle and bustle can be overwhelming for your dog. Unfamiliar faces, loud noises, and changes to their routine might leave them feeling stressed or anxious. So how can you ensure your furry friend enjoys the holidays as much as you do? Here are some tips to help.Recognizing Signs of Anxiety in DogsBefore you can ease your dog’s anxiety, it’s important to recognize the signs of distress in your pet and act quickly. The sooner you realize your pooch is uncomfortable in this new environment, it will be easier for you to make sure you can help them calm down and feel at ease once again. Here are some of the most common symptoms of anxiety in dogs:Pacing: Walking nervously and struggling to settle down.Hiding: Retreating to a quiet corner or another room.Vocalizing: Excessive barking or whining as a signal of distress.Trembling or Panting: Shaking or heavy breathing unrelated to heat or exercise.Aggression: Snapping or growling unexpectedly.If you notice these behaviors, it’s a sign your pup is feeling overwhelmed.Preparing for the HolidaysThe best way to reduce holiday stress for your dog is to plan ahead! Even if you’re unsure if your pet will be uneasy around festive activities and guests in your home, it pays to be prepared in case they do. #1 Create a Safe SpaceDesignate a quiet, comfortable spot where your dog can relax away from the commotion. Include essentials like water, treats, toys, and a  cozy bed to make the space inviting.
This beloved caramel-colored canine is truly having his moment in the sun.
Feisty Jack Russell terrier hands up her crown after 13 years of royal service.
Life-saving efforts win two pooches a coveted place in hero history.
Not all heroes wear capes, and that is particularly true for this one-of-a-kind hero dog. This senior doggo is more than deserving of that title as he valiantly saved a shelter volunteer from a dangerous encounter with a deadly snake. To make everything all the more amazing is the fact that the savior doggo is blind.Moogan, the hero dog in question, is blind due to a rare medical condition. He was walking one day with his caretaker, a shelter volunteer from Utah’s Best Friends Animal Sanctuary, named Dan Fishbein. Dan was there to make sure Moogan didn’t bump into obstacles. "He&#39;s so curious, still smelling the flowers, feeling out his surroundings," he said for Newsweek. "I&#39;m always on the lookout to make sure he doesn&#39;t barrel into anything."Being so focused on the obstacles in Moogan’s path, Dan Fishbein failed to notice a major threat – a rattlesnake that lay directly in his path. But Moogan’s sharp senses at once went into action and the dog pivoted sharply and directed Dan’s attention downwards, straight to the snake he was about to step on. "Moogan turned to the right, so I looked down, and there it was," Fishbein said. "A rattlesnake, coiled right next to my foot. I gently pulled him away, thanking him. Who would have thought my blind companion would be the one to save me?"
Every cat parent hopes that their kitty will live to an old age, but some cats surpass all expectations. One such cat was Rosie, who recently passed away at the age of 33. At that age, it’s believed that she was the oldest cat in the world.
A pet bird needs perches to rest, play, and even clean their beak. But when you start shopping for perches for your feathered companion’s cage, you might feel overwhelmed by all of the options. There are perches of all different sizes, materials, and shapes, and you might not know what’s right for your bird. That’s why we’ve put together this brief guide to bird perches.
We often associate larger brains with greater intelligence, but a recent study challenges this assumption in our canine companions. The study, published November 13 th  in the journal Biology Letters, aimed to explore whether there was any tangible connection between the physical size of a dog’s brain and their mental capabilities. The results suggest we may want to reconsider this common stereotype, at least where dogs are concerned. The idea isn’t entirely out of left field. Previous studies have found that in many mammals, a direct correlation has been found between bigger brains and higher survival odds due to their capacity to effectively process information and make better decisions. Considering this, the findings of the new study surprised many. “The key difference here is that dogs are not in a natural environment,” explained Ana Balcarcel, lead author of the new study. “They are a function of artificial selection… a very directed selection, evolution under human hands.” Researchers compared 14 behavioral traits from the Canine Behavioral Assessment and Research Questionnaire and the relative brain-to-skull size of 1682 dog skulls covering 172 breeds housed at the Natural History Museum Bern in Switzerland. They found several patterns, but these patterns went against our previous understanding. Dog breeds known to be most trainable and intelligent, like working dogs bred to perform complex skills, were found to have the smallest relative brain size. This included dog breeds most likely to excel in human-assistance roles, like guide dogs, police dogs, and those involved with search-and-rescue. Meanwhile, toy dog breeds bred mainly to serve as companions, like Chihuahuas, Pomeranians, and Yorkshire Terriers, were found to have larger relative brain sizes. Statistically, these breeds are also more likely to exhibit higher levels of fear, aggression, and separation anxiety. The most interesting thing about this for many researchers is that we, as a society, didn’t just choose breeds that were best suited for these working roles (which happened to have smaller brain ratios). Instead, over generations, they have been bred to be trainable, independent, and better at problem-solving. “We can say that we have really altered the brains – not just the body sizes and the proportions of different dogs, but it looks like we have also changed their brains in a significant way,” stated Balcarcel. Interestingly enough, the difference in brain size may also reflect our impact on the dogs through domestication. The study revealed that the brain of the average domesticated dog is approximately 20% smaller than that of a wild gray wolf relative to body size. However, domesticated dogs must understand and operate with higher social skills than wild dogs. Consider the unique skills your dog demonstrates daily, regardless of their breed. Domesticated dogs are expected to learn how to interpret our gaze, body language, and many verbal commands just to live as a family dog. Moving forward, the research team plans to dig further into the comparison between various dog breeds physically and their function by analyzing other physical differences, like the shape of specific parts of the brain. We’re excited to follow along and learn more about how this information could influence dog training and behavior as we know it! Join the PetGuide community. Get the latest pet news and product recommendations by subscribing to our newsletter  here.
Six months on the lam, this little pooch gained a legion of social media fans hoping for his safe capture.
Dogs do a lot of quirky things—one of the many reasons why everyone loves them so much. But have you heard of the sploot? This is a common behavior, with puppies and adult dogs from all breeds exhibiting it. Keep reading to learn all about dog splooting, including how to recognize when this isn’t considered a normal behavior.
Winter weather can be harsh for our feline friends, even those with the luxury of spending the cold winter months indoors. As temperatures drop and the wind howls, it’s crucial to ensure your cat stays warm and cozy. After all, you wouldn’t want your best friend to be uncomfortable!In this guide, I’ll share practical tips and tricks to keep your cat comfortable during the colder months. These steps will help your kitty feel warm and toasty, from providing cozy nooks to adjusting their diet.Plus, I’ll explore tips for keeping your cat warm while traveling in winter to help you prepare for the upcoming holiday season.What is the Ideal Temperature for Cats? Cats naturally have a higher body temperature than humans do. A healthy adult cat’s temperature should be between 100.5 and 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit. As a result of this, they tend to prefer warmer temperatures than we would. This is great in the summer months but can make it challenging to keep your best friend comfortable during the colder temperatures of the winter. A healthy cat is happies in temperatures between 77 and 86 degrees Fahrenheit. During the cooler months, an adult cat can adjust comfortably to temperatures as low as 59 degrees Fahrenheit. But this can vary if your cat is a young kitten or senior, as their tolerance isn’t as high. There are also several medical conditions that may make your cat more sensitive to cold temperatures, including diabetes, kidney disease, heart disease, Cushing’s disease, and some forms of cancer. If your cat is living with joint pain or similar conditions, the colder winter temperatures may also cause them to experience more aches and pains. Signs You Cat is Feeling Cold Recognizing when your cat is starting to feel chilly will help you make the necessary adjustments to keep them comfortable. It would be so helpful if our cats couple talk to us in English, letting us know how they feel and what they need. Unfortunately, that’s not reality. As cat parents, we must become masters of non-verbal communication including body language and behavioral changes. Some of the more common signs your cat is feeling cold include: ShiveringBreathing slowlySlower heart rateCurling up into a ballHunching down close to the groundExtremities cold to the touch (ears, paws, tail)Lack of activityAppearing confused or disoriented Muscle stiffness Weakness Seeking warm spots in the houseThe sooner you recognize that your cat is feeling cold, the faster you can respond and make sure they are feeling comfortable. This is also key to preventing cold-related medical conditions and complications like hypothermia. Take steps to warm up if you notice any of the above warning signs. If you are trying to warm your cat up and they are still showing signs they are cold, contact your veterinarian. 8 Tips to Keep Your Cat Warm This Winter As cat parents, we love our cats and want to give them the best possible quality of life. With that in mind, we need to find ways to keep them warm and cozy even when the temperatures drop. If your furnace is running all winter keeping the temperatures within their ideal temperature range, this may not be a problem you need to worry about. However, in many parts of the United States, keeping the temperatures in your house over 77 degrees Fahrenheit can be quite costly! Plus, there are those of us who use alternative heating sources like baseboard heating and woodstoves that can make it challenging to keep all areas of the home at the temperatures your cat would prefer. If you’re concerned your cat may be feeling a little chilly, here are a few steps you can take to help keep them cozy: Stick to Indoors Do you have a cat that indoors spending time outdoors? While I am a huge fan of safe outdoor adventures with my furry family members (camping, hiking, etc.), there are times when it is better to stick to the more comfortable environment indoors. This isn’t to say your cat can’t enjoy some on-leash time exploring the ice and snow. My one cat, Pippen, adores playing in the snow. But it’s our responsibility as cat parents to keep an eye on the temperatures and limit their time outdoors when it could be unsafe. Offer Warm and Cozy Bedding One of the easiest ways to keep your cat comfortable is by offering extra bedding to allow them to snuggle in and create a cozy place to nap. There are several great options to consider, depending on your cat’s personal preference. Donut style beds have higher sides, like a warm hug. Not only have these beds been found to keep cats warmer, but they are also said to have calming properties. The Bedsure Calming Cat Bed for Indoor Cats is a favourite in our house. With two cats, we had to pick up multiple beds to avoid fights over who got to sleep in the fluffy, comfy spot. Another option for cozy cat beds that I have seen several pet parents sharing is a covered bed or cat cave. This helps keep your cat warmer by trapping the warm air inside the bed with your kitty. The smaller the entry to your cat’s bed, the less warm air will be able to escape while they are sleeping inside. However, some cats find being in an enclosed space like this frightening as they are trapped and can’t escape if threatened. Finally, make sure to include plenty of cozy blankets they can snuggle into. The more blankets they have to move around and nest in, the better. They will arrange their sleeping space to best suit their needs. Use a Heated Bed or MatAnother great solution for creating a warm, cozy sleeping spot for your cat is to use a heated bed or mat. There are two options to consider, depending on the availability of nearby sockets and your personal preferences/comfort level. The first is a typical plug-in heated bed similar to heated blankets and mattress covers used on our own beds. These heated beds have controls giving you the ability to easily change the temperature to suit your cat’s needs. They can also be set to turn off after a specified time to avoid the bed becoming too warm or drawing too much power. An alternative is to use a self-heated design. Self-heated beds and cat mats reflect your cat’s own body heat when they are lying on them. This creates a warm, heated sleeping spot without the need for electricity. Not only are these great for locations with no available nearby socket, but they are also the perfect solution for cats who tend to chew electrical cords.
--------------------------------------------------
The origin of the Redbone Coonhound lies in Southern part of America, particularly Tennessee and Georgia. Around the 18th century, a number of European hunting dog breeds were imported to America. They were trained primarily for hunting small game. However, after the American Revolution, a need was felt for a hunting breed which could hunt in rugged terrains and could take on big game like Raccoon, Bears, porcupines etc. Thus, the Foxhound and the Bloodhound were crossbred to create the modern Redbone Coonhound. The breed owes its name to one of the earliest breeders of this breed named Peter Redbone and its ability to hunt Raccoons. The breed was first recognized by the AKC in 2009. 
The Redbone Coonhound is a medium to large sized dog with an athletic frame. It has a slightly long head; round eyes which are either dark brown or hazel in color; low set ears which lie close to the head; a square muzzle with a slightly tapering appearance; black nose with flared nostrils; thin lips with teeth which meet in scissors bite. This breed has a high set tail with a slight curve and is always carried above the line of the back, in an almost erect fashion. It has long, slender legs with cat like feet. The coat of this breed is short, dense and smooth. The color of the coat is always red, with slight white markings. 
The Redbone Coonhound is a docile, well mannered breed. It is good with children as well as friendly with strangers. Therefore, it does not make for a very good watchdog. However, given its hunting instincts and its eagerness to please its master, it makes for a good guard dog. Caution is advised with non canine pets such as cats, birds, hares as it has an inherent hunting tendency. Socializing at an early age is important to bring out the best behavior. Being an obedient breed, it is easy to train. If sufficiently exercised it does okay in an apartment life but is more comfortable at least in an average sized yard.
The Redbone Coonhound does not shed much hair. Its smooth and shiny coat is easy to maintain. Brushing its coat once or twice in a week with a firm bristle brush and rubbing its body with a damp towel once in a week are sufficient to maintain a healthy looking coat. It should be bathed regularly. Its eyes and ears should be cleaned properly to avoid any infection. 
The Redbone Coonhound is an active breed which requires a lot of daily exercise. Daily long walks should be supplemented with jogging and running for proper physical as well as mental development of the breed. Given its hunting tendency and a strong nose, it is important to keep it on a leash when outside in an open area.
The Redbone Coonhound is a hardy breed, not having any major health issues.
Terms & Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Site Map | Contact Us
Copyright � 2014, DogScope.com. All Rights Reserved.
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Redbone Coonhound is a breed of dog that was developed in the United States for hunting raccoons and other game animals. The breed's name comes from its distinctive rich, red coat.

The Redbone Coonhound has a fascinating history that dates back to the late 18th century. Early settlers in the US required dogs that could hunt and survive in rugged wilderness conditions. During the late 1700s and early 1800s, red foxhounds from Scotland and Ireland were imported to America, and the Redbone Coonhound is believed to be a descendant of these foxhounds.

The breed was refined during the 19th century to create a dog with speed, a keen nose, and versatility in tracking across different types of terrain, whether water or land. The dogs were selectively bred for their red color, which led to the breed being named Redbone. Today, they are popular for their skill in treeing and tracking game, especially raccoons, hence the name Coonhound.
Redbone Coonhounds may suffer from hip dysplasia, hyperthyroidism, and eye disorders such as glaucoma and central progressive retinal atrophy (CPRA). Genetic testing is recommended, including for the blood disorder called Pelger–Huet anomaly, and the neurological condition canine polyradiculoneuritis.
Redbone Coonhounds are known for their well-rounded personality. They are generally good-natured, amiable, and eager to please. They're also known for their versatility as family pets and hunting dogs.They have a keen instinct to track scents, and they can be quite focused and determined when on a trail. Despite their hunting instincts, they are typically good with children and other dogs. They have a lot of energy and require regular exercise to stay happy and healthy. However, they can also be quite laid-back when they're at home.
The Redbone Coonhound has a distinctive bay that can carry for long distances. This was important for hunters who needed to locate their dogs in dense forests or over vast areas.The breed gained fame through the classic novel "Where the Red Fern Grows" by Wilson Rawls. The book tells the story of a young boy and his two Redbone Coonhound dogs, named Old Dan and Little Ann.Despite their hunting background, many Redbones are also excellent swimmers and enjoy water activities.This breed demonstrates exceptional speed and agility.
https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/redbone-coonhound/https://www.ukcdogs.com/redbone-coonhound
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
