Cat Breeds
With its soft, silky, short coat in silvery blue-gray, the Russian Blue cat is stunning to behold, but this breed is also a marvelous companion. Affectionate and loyal, Russian Blues happily accompany their family members around the house, though they can be shy when strangers visit.
The Russian Blue isn't much of a mischief maker. Like any breed, these cats might get into things during their kitten years, but once you've gently taught them which surfaces are theirs to sit on and which should be left alone, the Russian Blue will generally stick to approved areas.
Russian Blue cats are highly intelligent and capable of learning many tasks, such as playing fetch, coming when called, and more. Many also learn to open doors—something to keep in mind when trying to keep a cat out of a certain room or cupboard! Because they can be shy and reserved, Russian Blue cats do not typically take to leash training. They are far happier sticking to known quantities and spending time with their families.
If you bring a Russian Blue into your home, you'll have a steadfast companion with a fondness for daily routines and gentle cuddles, along with a fairly strong opinion about everything that takes place in the household. While their families are away at work, these cats will happily nap instead of looking for ways to get into trouble. They do learn to get along with other pets and they can appreciate respectful children, but they don't need constant companionship.
Beautiful, fairly self-sufficient, and friendly with people they come to trust, Russian Blues make well-rounded pets and fit easily into a variety of living situations.
The Russian Blue has no special nutritional needs. However, high-quality diet is important for the health of all cats. Fresh food is an excellent choice and high-protein, low-carbohydrate commercial foods that incorporate real fish or real meat as the main ingredient are preferable to high-carbohydrate diets that can contribute to obesity.
Thanks to its short, easy-care coat, the Russian Blue cat doesn't require much help in the grooming department. These cats benefit from a weekly brushing, which helps remove loose hair and cuts back on shedding.
Brushing your cat's teeth daily with a pet-safe toothpaste and toothbrush is the best way to prevent dental disease, and regular nail trimming will keep the nails in good condition.
Even though Russian Blue cats are renowned for their dignified nature, they do have a playful streak. These cats have plenty of fun with toys they can enjoy on their own as well as interactive toys like feathered wands and lasers. In addition, they appreciate a multilevel cat tower, particularly if it has compartments for sleeping and hiding. Scratching posts are essential as well.
Since the Russian Blue is a naturally occurring breed, most Russian Blues enjoy good health. These cats can be prone to some of the same feline diseases that affect other cats, including hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, kidney disease, obesity, and periodontal disease.
With its incredible silvery-gray coloration, you might think that the Russian Blue cat was carefully developed by feline geneticists, but the truth is, this is a naturally occurring breed. Believed to originate in Russia's Archangel Isles around the port of Arkhangelsk, these cats probably accompanied sailors to Northern Europe and Great Britain during the 1860s. The first Archangel Cat was shown at London's Crystal Palace in 1875 and ever since then, these amazing cats have been highly coveted.
The Russian Blue was shown alongside all other blue cats until it was given its own show class in 1912. Following the second world war, the Russian Blue experienced a population collapse as so many cat breeds did at that time. Breeders, mostly in Scandinavia and England, worked to bring numbers back up.
Once these cats reached the shores of the United States, breeders allowed British Russian Blue and Scandinavian Russian Blue cat bloodlines to mingle. At the same time, Russian Blue cats have contributed to the creation of other breeds including the Nebelung, which is sometimes called the long-haired Russian Blue. The Havana Brown was also developed with the help of Russian Blues, and some Oriental Shorthairs carry Russian Blue DNA as well.
Russian Blue cats are recognized by cat breed associations all over the world, including the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) and The International Cat Association (TICA).
The Russian Blue’s coat is so plush that it’s possible to use a finger to “draw” a pattern that will remain in the coat until you smooth the fur back into place.
Slate gray/blue domestic shorthair cats are sometimes mistaken as Russian Blues. Purebred Russian Blues always have vivid green eyes.
Many of these cats enjoy exceptional longevity. The average life span of a Russian Blue cat is 10 to 20 years, with some individuals living as long as 25 years.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Russian Blue, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Russian Blue or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Russian Blue, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Russian Blue cats cost between $1000 - $1700.
Russian Blue cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Russian Blue cat might weigh between 10-14 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8"- 10" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Russian Blue is 10-16 years.
Russian Blue are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
this cat is so cute, i have a mix breed of this cat and a different one. we are still trying to find out what the other breed is.
10/10, would recommend. My cat, Misty, is a Russian Blue/DSH mix and she’s awesome. She wasn’t originally mine, as she was my sister’s, but she chose me as her human and my sister let me keep her when she moved out of state.
Misty is a very well behaved cat and will learn really quick when instructed as to what isn’t acceptable or what is. An example of this is after moving in with my current roommates, she jumped on one of their keyboard instruments and was promptly moved off and told not to jump up there. She hasn’t done it since.
I do appreciate her for her want to be close to me when I’m at home because it really helps when life gets rough. Though, I always wish I could do more for her for being such a good companion.
She’s about thirteen to fourteen at this point and in pretty good health, so I’m hoping she’ll make it to her late teens or maybe even twenty. I will likely get another Russian Blue after she passes because they are just the best.
After a 30 year wait, I bought a Russian Blue kitten from a ‘reputable’ breeder when he was 3 months old last spring. He is a wonderful companion and a ton of fun. It took him only part of one play session to figure out the laser light emanated from a small flashlight. The next night, he stomped around till I picked it up. Then, he promptly ran out to wait for it, looking at my hand! So yes, smart.
Originally I had read that they were ‘silent’ cats. Not true and no longer stated. He meows a bit and trills a lot! Yes, he loves to play when he is up. He loves water! Jumped into a full bath three times in the first week! Now he watches and worries when I get into the tub and stands guard on the mat I will step on when I get out. He learned to come when called and sit on command by the age of 5 months. Yes, I use a clicker for training and food treats for rewards
I’m trying to convert him to raw food, but it will take a while. Currently we are at the raw freeze dried treat stage. He does love those as payment for doing a trick! I think that I may have to go to cooked real food as an intermediate step, then move to raw. Fortunately, he loves beef, ham, and cooked chicken which he has been given over the last few weeks as a tiny treat in his saucer. Currently he eats grain free kibble and canned food.
I have owned a Tonkinese and Siamese in the past and loved them both very much. But I think that this guy is the best one for an aging Mom who waited a very long time for him. <3
Thanks for all your info and suggestions Mallory!
Thanks for sharing!
I’m interested in adopting one I saw today… he was so handsome! He’s an adult and is already spayed, I was wondering if he’ll get along with my kids (3 & 6) and my senior yorkie/chihuahua mix. My dog is the type that will bark at the wind and she doesn’t care for other animals, she only really likes humans but won’t “attack” another animal she just won’t socialize with them. Do you think this would be a problem with a Blue Russian?
It really depends on how they’ve been socialized prior to adoption and after, but I’ve certainly heard of Russian Blue cats who get along wonderfully with dogs. They tend to be quite calm and friendly, so I think it could be a good fit.
Hi Mallory,
I like your You tube Videos, quite helpful. I am very excited as I will be getting my first Cat (A Russian Blue) from a Breeder in the beginning of December. I have Boarded Cats Before but never owned One. I Selected this Breed specifically because of what I have read and Heard. The Low Shedding and being mostly Hypoallergenic appealed to me as is the color of the Coat and those Beautiful Emerald Eyes not to mention that cute face and a look that the cat is smiling. Thanks for the Reviews on Wet Food and Litter. it has helped a lot.
Thanks for your support, Mike! These are exciting times, and I hope our content continues to be a resource for you as you discover what it’s like caring for a Russian Blue of your own.
cats r best 🙂
My cat, Shadow is kinda “fat” we are very aware of what he has been eating ,I am a little afraid that he will become too big and will have a lower lifespan.
“Zeke” is his name. Named after my husband’s favorite book in the Bible “Ezekiel”. We just love him. He is an excellent cat to own.
I have a Russian Blue with polydactyl claws. HIs coat of fur is very dark grey, almost black and all the Russian Blue cats on-line are pale blue grey in color. Why is he so different in color? I was thinking that Russian Blue cats were a rare breed of cat.  It had been nearly 50 years ago that I had seen a Russian Blue cat up close and touching it. He is a very handsome cat, but very strange. He loves to stare alot and jump walls at night. He will not greet us. He is so different from our previous cats that we used to own. One bad thing is that I can not retrieve his medical record from his previous owners, so I do not have a shot record nor medical record on him. I not sure too many vets would be willing to treat him. He is very sweet and gentle, even though he has huge paws.
Hello Debra, thanks for commenting! Your Russian Blue sounds charmingly eccentric. As for the reason why his coat is so dark grey, that’s a tough question! Some Russian Blues do have a deep slate-colored coat, so yours may just be one of those. As long as you have confirmed that he is a Russian Blue from his breeder and have the paperwork confirming it, I would just assume that his coat is on the darker end of the normal spectrum.
Hi Mallory: Unfortunately, I have no information on Zeke, the Russian Blue.  His previous, temporary residency was with my husband’s boss, who was unable to retrieve the medical records, shot record nor was their registered paperwork confirming that he is a Russian Blue. But my husband’s boss just said by word of mouth from two previous owners of the cat. He is just a beautiful and nice acting cat. It was said that the original owner took good care of him. I wonder if DNA testing could confirm that Zeke is a Russian Blue cat. That would be nice. I also know that the cat came from Seattle, WA to Kalispell, MT and that he was owned by a teacher that could not keep him due to her living situation. Funny, that his name was originally Roosevelt and former president Teddy Roosevelt had a polydactyl cat in the Whitehouse. Would a DNA test help us find out a few more things about the cat? Sincerely, Debra Tharp
Hi Debra, cat DNA testing is generally not quite as reliable as DNA testing for dogs due to the relative lack of selective breeding over the years, but Basepaws or Wisdom Panel testing might shed some light on your cat’s genetic makeup. Hope this helps!
Russian Blue cats do not come in polydactyl.
Ah, that’s a good clarification. While polydactyly can affect cats of any breed, the breed standard for the Russian Blue features five toes in front and four on the rear paws. I’m sorry I didn’t realize this when I responded to Debra earlier.
My vet says my cat is a domestic shorthair, but my family and I think my cat is a Russian blue. I mean he looks like one, this entire article is just like him.
Please say if you think the vet is right with our cat I would appreciate it ,Thanks.
Hi Mae, your vet probably says that because no cat can officially “be” a member of a breed without papers. However, there is a chance that your cat is, indeed, a Russian Blue. Currently, cat DNA testing is not as effective or reliable as dog DNA tests, but you may have some luck with Wisdom Panel.
I have a Blue Cat; her name is Bella. She gets very anxious some time and will go hide from us. After her first year she began to give off this really bad odor at certain times. This scent is driving me crazy! My living room smells terrible, and my sofa is ruined. What can I do to get rid of the odor?  We are moving at the end of the year, and I want to keep her but that odor has to go.
I know this is a bit of an odd question, but are you sure that Bella is a female? Strong odors are generally associated with intact male cats, so I have to ask. Other than that, the “bad odor” is a very vague issue—is it coming from her mouth or does she seem to be secreting something from her skin? Is it coming from her litter box? Could it be coming from her anal glands? I would take a few more notes and think about what you’re noticing and then bring those observations to a veterinarian. They may be able to help you figure the problem out. You may also find it helpful to post about this situation in the All About Cats community, where you can continue an ongoing conversation with our forum members and veterinarian moderators.
My neighbor and I are fostering a Stray male Russian Blue that has been neutered. He has a clipped Right Ear. We have let him be the guide for socialization skills. We have been working with him for 12 months. He does on occasion have a pungent odor which we attribute to anal glands. He smart affectionate and gets along with other cats and dogs. He loves sleeping inside during the day but needs to be outside at night. He is so that he comes in when the weather is bad. They make great pets and can help train other friendly cats.
Is he adoptable
Hi everyone ☺ where i live theres 3 cats i didn’t know what they were untill now there fancy.  I wasn’t really a cat person but know there so adorable to me and cute .I accendently almost broke one of cats rib cage by smashing the glass sliding door on his stomach i feel so bad I pet him and ask tell him sorry  but he doesn’t understand I guess I whant to take him to the clinic but I can’t right I wish I could get x rays  .
Oh, Brenda, I’m so sorry this happened. Don’t beat yourself up over it, but please do try to get him to the vet if possible. You may also be able to call a vet and describe what happened as well as how he seems to be affected, which could help you to get some insights into whether or not veterinary attention is necessary. Wishing you all the best.
--------------------------------------------------
The Russian Blue cat (Russian: Русская голубая кошка, romanized: Russkaya golubaya koshka), commonly referred to as just Russian Blue, is a cat breed with colors that vary from a light shimmering silver to a darker, slate grey. The short, dense coat, which stands out from the body, has been the breed's hallmark for more than a century.
The Russian Blue is a naturally occurring breed that may have originated in the port of Arkhangelsk in Russia.[1] They are also sometimes called Archangel Blues.[2] It is believed that sailors took them from the Archangel Isles to Great Britain and Northern Europe in the 1860s.[1] The first reference to an Archangel Cat appears in British print in 1862.[3] The first recorded appearance of one in a show was in 1872 at The Crystal Palace in England as the Archangel Cat. [4] However, Harrison Weir writing in 1895 reported that the early show cats under the Russian Blue name were British-bred grey tabbies, with separate grey cats arriving from Archangel in Britain in the 1800s with features consistent with the modern breed. [5]  The Russian Blue competed in a class including all other blue cats until 1912, when it was given its own class. The breed was developed mainly in England and Scandinavia until after World War II.
Right after the war, a lack of numbers of Russian Blues led to cross breeding with the Siamese. Although Russian Blues were in the United States before the war, it was not until the post-war period that American breeders created the modern Russian Blue that is seen in the United States today. American breeders combined the bloodlines of both the Scandinavian and British Russian Blues. The Siamese traits have now largely been bred out. The short hair and slate-gray/blue color is often seen in mixed-breed cats, which can affect breeders and showers due to mislabeling a cat as a Russian Blue.[6]
Russian Blues are plush short-haired, shimmering pale blue-gray cats with emerald green eyes or yellow eyes. Guard hairs are distinctly silver-tipped giving the cat a silvery sheen or lustrous appearance. They have been used on a limited basis to create other breeds such as the Havana Brown or alter existing breeds such as the Nebelung. They are being used in Italy as a way to make Oriental Shorthairs healthier and more robust called RUS4OSH in FIFe.[7]
Russian Whites and Russian Blacks were created from crosses with domestic white cats which were allegedly imported from Russia. The first line was developed by Frances McLeod (Arctic) in the United Kingdom during the 1960s and the second line produced by Dick and Mavis Jones (Myemgay) in Australia in the 1970s.[8] By the late 1970s, the Russian White and Russian Black colors were accepted by cat fanciers in Australia as well as in South Africa and now also in the United Kingdom as Russian cats (in different classes). However, the Cat Fanciers' Association and FIFe does not recognize any variation of the Russian Blue.
The Russian Blue has bright green eyes, pinkish lavender or mauve paws, two layers of short thick fur, and a blue-grey-black coat.[9] The color is a bluish-gray that is the dilute expression of the black gene. However, as dilute genes are recessive ("d") and each parent will have a set of two recessive genes ("dd") two non-Color-Point Carrier (non-CPC) Russian Blues will always produce a blue cat. Due to the breeding with Siamese after World War II, there are color-point genes floating around. If two carriers are bred together, then they will produce a litter of mixed colors—solid blue or white with blue-point like a Siamese. People call these CPC cats "color-point", "whites" or "pointed" Russians. In most registries, one cannot register, breed or show a color-point Russian.  These color-point (blue-point) cats are called Color-Point-Russian Blue (Blue Point Russian Blue) or more informally as Pika Blu (or pika blue) cats and have the same general characteristics as the Russian Blue cats.
The coat is known as a "double coat", with the undercoat being soft, downy and equal in length to the guard hairs, which are an even blue with silver tips. However, the tail may have a few very dull, almost unnoticeable stripes. The coat is described as thick, plush and soft to the touch and can be described as being softer than the softest silk. The silver tips give the coat a shimmering appearance. Its eyes are almost always a dark and vivid green. Any white patches of fur or yellow eyes in adulthood are seen as flaws in show cats.[6] Russian Blues should not be confused with British Blues (which are not a distinct breed, but rather a British Shorthair with a blue coat as the British Shorthair breed itself comes in a wide variety of colors and patterns), nor the Chartreux or Korat which are two other naturally occurring breeds of blue cats, although they have similar traits.
They are generally considered to be a quiet breed but there are always exceptions. They are normally reserved around strangers, unless they are brought up in an active household. Many Russian Blues have been trained to do tricks. They can also be fierce hunters, often catching rodents, birds, rabbits, small mammals, or reptiles. As loving and easy going as Russian Blues are, they do not like change, and prefer predictable, routine schedules.[10]
Russian Blue kittens are energetic and require adequate playmates or toys as they can become mischievous if bored.  They have exceptional athleticism and rival even Abyssinians for their ability to leap and climb. Slow to mature, Russian Blues retain many of their adolescent traits both good and otherwise until they are 3–4 years old and even much older Blues can be easily enticed into play by their owners. Russian Blues are also highly intelligent. They have an excellent memory and will learn the hiding place of favorite toys and lead their owners to them when they want a game. They also have a keen ability to remember favorite visitors and will race to greet familiar faces even if quite some time has passed between visits.[citation needed]
They are small to moderate-sized cats with an average weight of 3.6 to 6.8 kg (8 to 15 lb) when fully grown.[11] Males will typically be larger than females. Their gestation period is approximately 64 days.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that the Russian Blue may be better tolerated by individuals with mild to moderate allergies. There is speculation that the Russian Blue produces less glycoprotein Fel d 1, one source of cat allergies. The thicker coat may also trap more of the allergens closer to the cat's skin. Glycoprotein is one source of cat allergies, but this does not mean that all allergies will be stopped. They can still happen, but not as extreme, and for a much less amount of time than other cat breeds. Because of this, Russian Blues are very popular with people with allergies all around the world. [citation needed]
--------------------------------------------------
The dense, bright blue coat tipped with silver has been the hallmark of the Russian Blue for more than a century. While generally quiet cats, they will talk to you if you talk to them and develop a large vocabulary. Once the Russian Blue decides you are worthy of his attention, he is extremely affectionate and expects your loving attention to all its needs. They are playful, loving companions that get along well with children and other pets. The thick Russian Blue coat is easy to groom with brushing or combing once or twice a week. Find out more about this breed and if the Russian Blue is right for you and your family.
Playful
medium-sized cat
10 - 20 years
Russian Blues come in one coat color – blue, and one coat length – short
Russian Blues come in one coat color – blue, and one coat length – short


The elegant and aristocratic Russian Blue is a sweet-tempered, loyal cat. They are known for their friendliness and intelligence, but are somewhat reserved around strangers. However, they are affectionate and very close to their family and tend to follow them around, sometimes on their shoulders.
Observant and persistent, Russian Blues can be very vocal, and will use their voice to converse back-and-forth and communicate with others. They thrive on structure and expect you to maintain a regular schedule…although they will try to convince you that you are late with a meal or to pretend to another family member that you forgot to feed them!
Playful and loving companions, they get along well with children and other pets. They are content to be home alone and then happy to engage and interact with you when you return home, making them well suited to apartment living.
Russian blues are a highly intelligent breed that enjoys physical and mental stimulation. Smart and observant, they can be taught to play fetch and do tricks, including how to open doors and drawers. Challenge their brain by teaching them tricks and providing puzzle toys that will reward them with kibble or treats when they learn how to manipulate them.
They are especially fond of retrieving, jumping, and climbing to high places where they can study people and situations before making up their mind about whether they want to get involved.
While very social, they also enjoy alone time and will seek a quiet, private nook to sleep.
Want to connect with fellow cat lovers and those who love the same breed as you?TICA is a large resource made up of smaller regions and clubs around the world.Click here to find a club near you and contact information for your regional director and website.
Wherever you are, you’re in TICA’s world!®
The TICA website is the only place where you can find TICA member breeders who have signed the TICA Code of Ethics.
Some people believe Russian Blues descended from cats of the Russian Czars.
Russian Blues are sometimes called “Archangel Cats” after their point of origin in the Archangel Isles.
In the movie Garfield: The Movie, Arlene is portrayed by a Russian Blue feline.
Felicity, a character in the novel and film Felidae, was a Russian Blue cat.
In the movie Cats & Dogs, a Russian Blue kitten is depicted as a trainee. Catherine from the movie’s sequel, Cats & Dogs: The Revenge of Kitty Galore, is also a Russian Blue.
In the comic Two Lumps, Eben and Snooch are portrayed as Russian Blues cats.
The Nyan Cat meme was inspired by creator Chris Torres’ Russian Blue, Marty.
The aristocratic Russian Blue is the gem of the feline world. Their short, dense silver-tipped blue fur glistens and shimmers in the light as they move providing an elegant setting for their glowing emerald green eyes. Is it it any wonder they are rumored to have been the pets of the Russian Czars and a favorite of Queen Victoria? Their beautiful faces have an enigmatic smile as they survey their dominion with satisfaction. They are a medium sized cat with fine boning and large, flared ears all in wonderful harmony. Sheer elegance combined with intelligence make this breed a winner in the show ring and in the home.
Russian Blues are also known as the Archangel cats. While their silver tipping and green eyes certainly makes them look like angels, the Archangel name was given to them after their point of origin–the Russian port of Arkhangelsk on the White Sea about 150 miles south of the Arctic Circle. The cats boarded the boats with the sailors and came to other parts of Europe. The first cat shows in England in the 1880s included Russian Blues. For a while, all blue shorthaired cats competed in the same class however in 1912 the distinctive cats from Arkhangelsk with their large eyes and ears were assigned their own class called the Foreign Blue.
The war had an impact on cat breeding and on the Russian Blue cats. After the war, breeders sought to revive their lines and outcrossed to cats that resembled the Russian cats. Some English breeders chose to use the blue British Shorthair to ensure they kept the pale plush coat. Other Russian Blue breeders chose to use blue point Siamese to ensure they kept the elegant foreign body with its long fine legs and to preserve the distinctive head with its large ears and eyes. Breeders in Scandinavia also started to develop their version of the breed using Siamese and a blue cat named Pierette but their cats had short tight dark coats and magnificent emerald green eyes set like jewels in the triangular head. Russian Blues came to North America in the early 1900s however serious breeding programs began much later. The North American Russian Blue breeders imported cats from both England and Scandinavia and worked to combine the best features of each into today’s modern Russian Blue. Today’s Russian Blue has emerald eyes and a medium blue coat frosted with silver and the angelic smile that is a distinguishing feature of the breed.
The elegant, aristocratic Russian Blue has a keen intellect that makes it an engaging companion. The Russian Blue surveys a situation before diving in and so rarely gets itself into a difficult situation – it observes people to determine if they are worthy of its companionship. Sometimes people see this behavior as shy or aloof when it is really a reserve with strangers until it has fully assessed them. Once the Russian Blue decides you are worthy of its attention, it is extremely affectionate and expects your loving attention to all its needs. They will teach you how to play Fetch – bringing you their toy and demanding you throw it for them! Their quick intelligence has them learning all the time – and they will watch you until they figure out how to open that container containing their favorite treats! While they are generally quiet cats, they will talk to you if you talk to them and can develop a large vocabulary. They are playful, loving companions that get along well with children and other pets. They are a great choice for the modern family because they are content with their own company while you are out and about but delighted to spend time playing or curled in your lap when you get home.
Russian Blues come in one coat color – Blue. And one coat length – Short. It is their short, dense, bright blue coat tipped with silver that has been a hallmark of the breed for more than a century. The silvery tip to the hairs reflects the light and the coat shimmers like moire silk as the cat moves. Watching a Russian Blue moving in sunlight is like watching poetry in motion! The dense coat stands out from the body and you can draw patterns in the coat that will stay until you smooth them out again.
The elegant silver setting is one set to house priceless jewels – and those jewels are the glowing emeralds that serve as eyes in these magnificent cats. The deep, vivid green eyes engage your attention and draw you deep into their depths. The enigmatic smile hovers on the face as the cat watches you entranced with its regal bearing.
The Russian Blue is a graceful cat with a medium-sized foreign body that is lithe and muscular. The long legs are fine boned and the cat seems to know it as it often poses sitting high with feet crossed in a pose that accentuates the line of the cat.
The head is a wedge with 7 angular planes that create a pleasing look. The characteristic smile is emphasized by the crossing of the muzzle and cheekbone planes. The wide, high cheekbones frame the large, almost round emerald eye. The large, flared ears frame the exquisite face providing a pleasing balance.
All together the straight lines and graceful presence of the Russian Blue give it an aristocratic appearance that is then regally cloaked in the blue coat shimmering with silver and the expressive emerald green eyes.
Russian Blues are considered overall a healthy breed, it is not uncommon for some to reach 16 years of age or more with proper care.
Russian Blues require minimal grooming if you maintain a good hygiene routine. Brush their coat regularly. This will also remove dead hair and distribute skin oils.
Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check their ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
As with all cats, brush their teeth weekly to prevent periodontal disease and trim their nails every couple of weeks.
Russian Blues are known to have a healthy appetite. It is important to make sure they don’t overeat by keeping them on a regular feeding schedule and avoiding too many cat treats.
As with all cats, it is important to give your cat fresh, clean water daily. Fresh, clean water is best, so cats don’t hesitate to drink. If you worry about your cat drinking enough water each day, here’s a tip from some cat behaviorists: place the water bowl at least three feet away from any food. Cats’ noses are sensitive, and an overwhelming smell of food may cause them to drink less. Filtered drinking fountains can also be used in place of a water bowl.
Join the Cat Care Community!
Sign up now for exclusive monthly cat care tips delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your name and email below to stay updated with the best advice for your kitty companions!
"*" indicates required fields
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Kirill Vorobyev, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 25, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Russian Blue cat is a striking feline with pale blue fur and distinctive emerald-colored eyes. They are known for their affectionate personality and various desirable traits that make them a favorite among many cat owners. If you are contemplating owning a Russian Blue cat, this article is for you.
Breed Overview          Height:8–10 inches    Weight:10–14 pounds   Lifespan:10–20 years          Colors:Slate gray     Suitable for:Families with older children, seniors, or apartment dwellers         Temperament:Loyal, affectionate, playful, social, and independent
Russian Blue cats, also known as Archangel Blues, are purebred felines with a unique appearance. They are medium-sized with an average height of 8 to 10 inches and a weight of up to 14 pounds. They stand out with their mesmerizing eyes, elegant build, and shimmering blue coats.
The Russian Blue cat is naturally curious and intelligent, making them easy to be trained and housebroken. They make great pets for families and feline-loving individuals alike, so caring for a Russian Blue cat is a rewarding experience.
 Russian Blue Cat CharacteristicsEnergy+ A high-energy cat needs a lot of physical and mental stimulation to keep healthy and happy, while a low-energy cat needs minimal physical activity, but still needs mental stimulation. When choosing a cat, It’s important to ensure their energy levels match your lifestyle. Trainability+ Cats that are easy-to-train are more willing and skilled at quickly learning prompts and actions with minimal training. Harder-to-train cats are usually more stubborn or aloof and require a bit more patience and practice. Health+ Certain cat breeds are more prone to various genetic health problems, and some more than others. This doesn’t mean that every cat in those breeds will have these issues, but they do have an increased risk, so it’s important to understand and prepare for any additional needs they may require. Lifespan+ Due to their size or potential genetic health issues of a specific breed, some cats have shorter lifespans than others. Proper nutrition, exercise, mental stimulation, and hygiene also play an important role in your cat’s lifespan and quality of life. Sociability+ Some cat breeds are more social than others, both towards humans and other cats and animals. Cats that are more social have a tendency to rub up on strangers for scratches or jump on laps for cuddles, while cats that are less social shy away, hide, are more cautious, and even potentially aggressive. No matter the breed or gender, it’s important to socialize your cat and expose them to many different situations. 

Russian Blue Kittens




Image Credit: Utekhina Anna, Shutterstock
Russian Blue kittens are incredibly playful and energetic. They will spend most of their time playing and sleeping, so they need plenty of toys to keep them entertained. You can begin training Russian Blue kittens by the time they are about 8 weeks old.
This is a good age to also start socializing your Russian Blue kittens and allowing them to adjust to other pets and different environmental stimuli. If you get your Russian Blue kitten from a reputable breeder, it is likely they have already received the basics of early socialization. However, the kitten’s training and socialization should continue once you bring them home. Furthermore, the kitten should have received the necessary medical procedures before coming home with you.
If you do not want to purchase your Russian Blue kitten from a breeder, adoption is a good route to go. You would only need to pay the adoption fee for the kitten, which usually costs less than if you were to purchase one from a breeder.

Temperament & Intelligence of the Russian Blue Cat
Russian Blue cats are affectionately described by their owners as loyal, social, and loving. However, they can be fairly independent and not very cuddly at times. Russian Blue cats are generally more friendly toward their owners and form close bonds. They can be reserved for strangers and even hide when guests arrive.
Russian Blue cats may take a while to bond with new people, so it is best to be patient when socializing and bonding with them. These devoted felines are highly intelligent and can be easily trained with the right methods. Their high intelligence also makes it important to provide them with plenty of mental stimulation to prevent boredom.
Are These Cats Good for Families? 👪
Russian Blue cats make excellent pets for families with older children and other friendly dogs or cats. Despite being wary of strangers, they are a relatively social and friendly cat breed. Russian Blue cats do not mind sharing their home with older children who understand the cat’s boundaries of being handled or played with. They are also perfect for families with seniors and those who live in apartments or other small homes.




Image Credit: milivigerova, Pixabay
Does This Breed Get Along With Other Pets? 🐶🐱
Russian Blue cats could get along with other friendly pets like cats or dogs. This is possible through early socialization with other pets in a comfortable environment. However, this does not guarantee that other pets will automatically get along with a Russian Blue cat. If another pet in the home provokes them, it might make them fearful of interacting with that particular pet again.
Since Russian Blue cats are naturally predatory animals, giving them access to rooms with small pets such as birds or hamsters is not a good idea. Any small pets should be kept in a secure cage and in a separate room that your Russian Blue cat cannot enter.

Things to Know When Owning a Russian Blue Cat
Food & Diet Requirements 🐡
As with most felines, Russian Blue cats are obligate carnivores. Their primary diet should consist of animal-based foods, such as poultry or beef. Their diet must contain all the necessary vitamins, minerals, and amino acids required for cats. Arginine and taurine are two essential amino acids that cats get from animal tissues in their diet. Russian Blue cats will accept most types of cat foods, whether it is canned, kibble, or raw.
Some Russian Blue cats prefer certain types of foods over others. This could be influenced by any health conditions and texture or taste preferences they have. If your Russian Blue cat is under 1 year old or considered a senior, then a diet formulated for those life stages could be worth offering.




Image Credit: slawomir.gawryluk, Shutterstock
Exercise 🐈
Exercise is important for Russian Blue cats, as it may help with their weight management and prevent boredom. Russian Blues can easily become bored if they are not offered much exercise or toys to play with. You would need to dedicate about an hour of your day to play and interact with your Russian Blue.
Not only does this entertain them, but it also allows you to bond with them. Exercising a Russian Blue usually involves giving them new toys to play with and allowing them to explore your home or secured yard safely. Toys and interactive games that engage a Russian Blue’s instinct to hunt and chase are great forms of mental and physical exercise.
Training 🧶
Most Russian Blue cats are eager to be trained and to learn new things. However, sometimes their independent personalities can make it difficult for them to respond to training at first. You should stick with consistent and positive training methods to keep your Russian Blue cat interested. They can be both house and litterbox trained or taught to follow basic verbal commands.
Grooming ✂️
Russian Blue cats have relatively undemanding grooming requirements thanks to their short, manageable coats. You generally only need to brush them once or twice a week using a slicker brush or hand grooming mitt. Their coat should be brushed in the direction of the hair growth to catch any loose hairs and keep it looking smooth.
Aside from brushing, you will also need to keep your Russian Blue’s nails trimmed. This can either be done yourself, by a cat groomer, or at a veterinary checkup. It is not necessary to bathe Russian Blue cats regularly unless encouraged by a veterinarian. Russian Blues prefer grooming themselves, and bathing them with harsh shampoos might be irritating to their skin and coat.




Image Credit: milivigerova, Pixabay
Health and Conditions 🏥
Although the Russian Blue is a relatively healthy and robust breed, they can still suffer from various health conditions.
 Minor Conditions

 Overgrown nails
 Cataracts


Serious Conditions

 Progressive retinal atrophy
 Polycystic kidney disease
 Cancer
 Heart disease
 Dental disease
 Diabetes mellitus
 Urinary tract disease



Male vs. Female
The most noticeable differences between male and female Russian Blue cats are their hormonal behaviors and reproductive issues. Unneutered male cats usually urine spray more than females to mark their territory. They may try to escape the house to mate with female cats in the neighborhood, which might result in yowling and restlessness if they cannot. This type of behavior is also seen in unspayed female cats during heat.




Image Credit: Review News, Shutterstock

3 Little-Known Facts About the Russian Blue Cat
1. Russian Blue Cats Are Allergy Friendly (Kind Of)
As Russian Blue cats tend to shed slightly less than other breeds, making them a better choice for people with minor allergies.

2. These Cats Are A Rare Gem in North America
Russian Blue cats are very rare in North America, so most reputable breeders have a waiting list.

3. Believe It or Not, They Come from Russia
These cats are believed to have originated from a northern part of Russia called “Arkhangelsk.”

Final Thoughts
Russian Blue cats are striking felines with their green eyes and low-shedding, plush blue coats. They are purebreds with possible origins from northern Russia. The nature of the Russian Blue cat’s personality means they are not the most welcoming of cuddles, and they can be relatively independent.
They do not mind being on their own but can also be loving and sociable toward their owners. It is normal for Russian Blue cats to be wary of unfamiliar guests and animals, but early socialization can help them become comfortable around them quickly.

See also: How Long Do Russian Blue Cats Live?

Sources

WebMD
PetMD
PetMD
Height:
8–10 inches
Weight:
10–14 pounds
Lifespan:
10–20 years
Colors:
Slate gray
Suitable for:
Families with older children, seniors, or apartment dwellers
Temperament:
Loyal, affectionate, playful, social, and independent
Russian Blue cats, also known as Archangel Blues, are purebred felines with a unique appearance. They are medium-sized with an average height of 8 to 10 inches and a weight of up to 14 pounds. They stand out with their mesmerizing eyes, elegant build, and shimmering blue coats.
The Russian Blue cat is naturally curious and intelligent, making them easy to be trained and housebroken. They make great pets for families and feline-loving individuals alike, so caring for a Russian Blue cat is a rewarding experience.

Russian Blue kittens are incredibly playful and energetic. They will spend most of their time playing and sleeping, so they need plenty of toys to keep them entertained. You can begin training Russian Blue kittens by the time they are about 8 weeks old.
This is a good age to also start socializing your Russian Blue kittens and allowing them to adjust to other pets and different environmental stimuli. If you get your Russian Blue kitten from a reputable breeder, it is likely they have already received the basics of early socialization. However, the kitten’s training and socialization should continue once you bring them home. Furthermore, the kitten should have received the necessary medical procedures before coming home with you.
If you do not want to purchase your Russian Blue kitten from a breeder, adoption is a good route to go. You would only need to pay the adoption fee for the kitten, which usually costs less than if you were to purchase one from a breeder.

Russian Blue cats are affectionately described by their owners as loyal, social, and loving. However, they can be fairly independent and not very cuddly at times. Russian Blue cats are generally more friendly toward their owners and form close bonds. They can be reserved for strangers and even hide when guests arrive.
Russian Blue cats may take a while to bond with new people, so it is best to be patient when socializing and bonding with them. These devoted felines are highly intelligent and can be easily trained with the right methods. Their high intelligence also makes it important to provide them with plenty of mental stimulation to prevent boredom.
Russian Blue cats make excellent pets for families with older children and other friendly dogs or cats. Despite being wary of strangers, they are a relatively social and friendly cat breed. Russian Blue cats do not mind sharing their home with older children who understand the cat’s boundaries of being handled or played with. They are also perfect for families with seniors and those who live in apartments or other small homes.
Russian Blue cats could get along with other friendly pets like cats or dogs. This is possible through early socialization with other pets in a comfortable environment. However, this does not guarantee that other pets will automatically get along with a Russian Blue cat. If another pet in the home provokes them, it might make them fearful of interacting with that particular pet again.
Since Russian Blue cats are naturally predatory animals, giving them access to rooms with small pets such as birds or hamsters is not a good idea. Any small pets should be kept in a secure cage and in a separate room that your Russian Blue cat cannot enter.

As with most felines, Russian Blue cats are obligate carnivores. Their primary diet should consist of animal-based foods, such as poultry or beef. Their diet must contain all the necessary vitamins, minerals, and amino acids required for cats. Arginine and taurine are two essential amino acids that cats get from animal tissues in their diet. Russian Blue cats will accept most types of cat foods, whether it is canned, kibble, or raw.
Some Russian Blue cats prefer certain types of foods over others. This could be influenced by any health conditions and texture or taste preferences they have. If your Russian Blue cat is under 1 year old or considered a senior, then a diet formulated for those life stages could be worth offering.
Exercise is important for Russian Blue cats, as it may help with their weight management and prevent boredom. Russian Blues can easily become bored if they are not offered much exercise or toys to play with. You would need to dedicate about an hour of your day to play and interact with your Russian Blue.
Not only does this entertain them, but it also allows you to bond with them. Exercising a Russian Blue usually involves giving them new toys to play with and allowing them to explore your home or secured yard safely. Toys and interactive games that engage a Russian Blue’s instinct to hunt and chase are great forms of mental and physical exercise.
Most Russian Blue cats are eager to be trained and to learn new things. However, sometimes their independent personalities can make it difficult for them to respond to training at first. You should stick with consistent and positive training methods to keep your Russian Blue cat interested. They can be both house and litterbox trained or taught to follow basic verbal commands.
Russian Blue cats have relatively undemanding grooming requirements thanks to their short, manageable coats. You generally only need to brush them once or twice a week using a slicker brush or hand grooming mitt. Their coat should be brushed in the direction of the hair growth to catch any loose hairs and keep it looking smooth.
Aside from brushing, you will also need to keep your Russian Blue’s nails trimmed. This can either be done yourself, by a cat groomer, or at a veterinary checkup. It is not necessary to bathe Russian Blue cats regularly unless encouraged by a veterinarian. Russian Blues prefer grooming themselves, and bathing them with harsh shampoos might be irritating to their skin and coat.
Although the Russian Blue is a relatively healthy and robust breed, they can still suffer from various health conditions.

The most noticeable differences between male and female Russian Blue cats are their hormonal behaviors and reproductive issues. Unneutered male cats usually urine spray more than females to mark their territory. They may try to escape the house to mate with female cats in the neighborhood, which might result in yowling and restlessness if they cannot. This type of behavior is also seen in unspayed female cats during heat.

As Russian Blue cats tend to shed slightly less than other breeds, making them a better choice for people with minor allergies.
Russian Blue cats are very rare in North America, so most reputable breeders have a waiting list.
These cats are believed to have originated from a northern part of Russia called “Arkhangelsk.”

Russian Blue cats are striking felines with their green eyes and low-shedding, plush blue coats. They are purebreds with possible origins from northern Russia. The nature of the Russian Blue cat’s personality means they are not the most welcoming of cuddles, and they can be relatively independent.
They do not mind being on their own but can also be loving and sociable toward their owners. It is normal for Russian Blue cats to be wary of unfamiliar guests and animals, but early socialization can help them become comfortable around them quickly.
Featured Image Credit: Kirill Vorobyev, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Sarah Psaradelis is an avid young writer with dual passions for literature and animals. She enjoys sharing knowledge of animal care and helping others. Sarah has over 8 years of writing experience and is currently studying veterinary science. She resides in South Africa where she takes care of fish, aquarium snails, dogs, and rodents. Sarah is a passionate vegan activist and animal rescuer pursuing her path to make the world a better place for humans and animals alike.
I was pleased with the information in this article. although my cat probably isn't a pure breed she icertainly has the look and characteristics of one  thank you for the information,  Deb Nickerson
Thanks Deb! Glad you enjoyed the article :)
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The Russian Blue’s elegant yet muscular body led one cat judge to declare him the “Doberman Pinscher of cats.” With their striking appearance and enchanting personalities, these cats have captured the hearts of cat lovers worldwide. These alluring felines have an elegant, silvery-blue coat, bright green eyes, and gentle nature. Interestingly, they are one of the oldest known breeds, with a history that dates back to the 19th century. Originally bred in the Archangel Isles of Northern Russia, they were first brought to England in the late 1800s. These cats were also popular with the Russian Tsars, and they were often given as gifts to foreign dignitaries.
Beyond their bold appearance and storied history, Russian Blues are known for their sweet and loving nature. These kitties are also highly intelligent. Don’t be surprised if they steer clear of the action and any social gatherings at first. They like to assess situations before getting involved. As a result, they can be shy around strangers. Still, they form deep bonds with their human families. These cats thrive on companionship, and their gentle nature makes them excellent pets for families, singles, and seniors alike.
When considering a Russian Blue, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Russian Blue kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Russian Blue breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
As with so many cat breeds, little is known of the Russian Blue’s origins. He probably does come from Russia—his thick coat is surely that of a cat from colder climes—and he is considered a natural breed, meaning Matushka Nature created him, not the handiwork of humans.
The Russian Blue’s development as a breed, however, took place primarily in Britain and Scandinavia, starting in the late nineteenth century, when showing and breeding cats became a popular activity. The Russian Blue made his first appearance on the world stage of the cat fancy at an exhibit of cats held at London’s Crystal Palace in 1875.
Labeled an Archangel Cat, because he was said to be from the Russian island of Archangel, he competed against other blue cats of varying types. A newspaper report of the show described the Russian Blue as “very handsome” and “particularly furry,” adding “They resemble mostly the common wild grey rabbit.” Other early names by which the breed was known were Maltese and Foreign Blue.
A British cat fancier named Mrs. Carew-Cox began importing the cats in 1890 and bred and showed them through the turn of the century. She described them as having short, silvery fur, large ears, wide-set eyes and lean faces, with sweet, intelligent personalities—in short, much the same as the Russian Blue of today.
In 1912, the cats were well enough established that they could be shown in a class of their own instead of being lumped together with other blue cats. World War II nearly put an end to the breed. Very few cats survived the years of privation, and British and Scandinavian breeders turned to other breeds, primarily the Siamese and the British Blue, to help revive their bloodlines.
Because of the Siamese influence, the cats developed a more extreme look, and the texture of their coat changed. It took years to bring the breed back to its original appearance. That was achieved by combining British bloodlines, which emphasized plush, silvery coats, and Scandinavian bloodlines, which were known for producing cats with bright breen eyes and flat profiles. The result was the Russian Blue of moderate type seen today.
Russian Blues were first imported to the United States in 1900, but it wasn’t until after World War II that American breeders began to develop their own lines from cats imported in 1947. Today they are popular show cats as well as companions to those who know the secret of their sweet beauty.
Russian Blue cats are generally considered a medium-sized breed with a slim and elegant build. Russian Blue cats typically weigh between 7 to 15 pounds (3.2 to 6.8 kilograms). Males are often larger and heavier than females, but there can be variations within the breed. They have a slender and graceful body with fine bones and well-defined muscles. Their bodies are not bulky, and their frame is sleek and streamlined.
Russian Blues are of average height for a domestic cat breed. They usually stand about 9 to 10 inches (23 to 25 centimeters) tall at the shoulder. They have a long, slender tail that tapers to a fine point. The tail complements their overall elegant appearance.
Russian Blues may appear slightly larger due to their luxurious, plush fur, but underneath the coat, their bodies are relatively compact. It’s important to note that individual Russian Blue cats can vary in size, just like any other breed.
The Russian Blue has a reputation as a gentle, quiet cat, somewhat shy, but don’t get the wrong idea. This cat may have a reserved nature, but he loves to play (being especially fond of retrieving) and enjoys jumping or climbing to high places where he can study people and situations at his leisure before making up his mind about whether he wants to get involved.
Guests will not receive his immediate attention and may never see him unless he decides they are worthy of his notice, but toward family members, especially his favored person, he is ever loyal, following them through the house and even riding on a shoulder. The Russian Blue is a sensitive cat who doesn’t like to be ignored and will be hurt if he doesn’t receive the same amount of affection he gives. Lack of attention can cause him to become anxious or fearful.
While the Russian Blue loves your company, he is capable of entertaining himself during the day while you are at work. Unlike some active, intelligent breeds, he is not destructive but moves through the house with the lithe grace of a Russian ballerina. When you are at home, his subtle sense of humor and manual dexterity will never fail to entertain. Just make sure you laugh with him, not at him. He has a strong sense of self-worth and doesn’t like being made fun of.
This is a cat who does best in a quiet, stable environment. He doesn’t like change, and it’s especially important to him that meals arrive on time. Count on him to be a faithful alarm clock in the morning, not so you don’t miss work but so he doesn’t miss a meal. If you take the time to develop a relationship with a Russian Blue, your reward will be a deep bond with this loving cat.
Russian Blue cats are generally a healthy breed, but like all cat breeds, they can be prone to certain health issues. It’s important to note that not all Russian Blues will develop these problems, and many can live long, healthy lives with proper care. Here are some health issues that Russian Blue cats may be predisposed to:
Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HCM): HCM is a common heart condition in cats, including Russian Blues. It involves the thickening of the heart muscles, which can affect the heart’s ability to function properly. Regular veterinary check-ups and echocardiograms can help detect and manage HCM.
Respiratory Infections: Russian Blues may be more susceptible to upper respiratory infections, such as feline herpesvirus (FHV) and feline calicivirus (FCV). These infections can cause symptoms like sneezing, coughing, and eye discharge.
Urinary Tract Issues: Russian Blues may be at a slightly higher risk of urinary tract issues like urinary tract infections (UTIs) or urinary crystals. Ensuring they have access to fresh water and feeding them a balanced diet can help reduce the risk.
Obesity: Obesity can be a concern for Russian Blues, as they enjoy eating and may become overweight if their diet is not controlled. Maintaining a healthy weight through proper portion control and exercise is essential.
The Russian Blue’s dense coat should be combed twice a week to remove dead hair and distribute skin oils. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks. A bath when the cat is shedding will help to remove excess hair more quickly. Keep the Russian Blue’s litter box spotlessly clean. He is very particular about bathroom hygiene. It’s a good idea to keep a Russian Blue as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Russian Blues who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Russian Blue’s elegant yet muscular body led one cat judge to proclaim him the “Doberman Pinscher of cats.” He has what’s called a semi-foreign body type, meaning it is moderate in shape, falling somewhere between the short, compact body of breeds such as Persians and the sleek angles of Oriental breeds such as the Siamese.
The Cat Fanciers Association breed standard for the Russian Blue calls for him to have a head that is a smooth, medium-size wedge shape with a blunt muzzle. The broad wedge of the head and its flat skull are often described as cobra-like, although that is much too dangerous a description for this sweet-natured cat. Regal is perhaps a better term.
Large ears are wide at the base with pointed tips, the interior lined with thin, translucent skin, and rounded vivid green eyes are set wide apart. A long, slender neck segues into high shoulder blades and a fine-boned body that is firm and muscular, covered with a short, thick double coat with a plush texture, often described as similar to that of a seal or beaver. If you were to run your fingers through a Russian Blue’s coat, the patterns they made would remain until they were petted smooth.
Some Russian Blue kittens are born with “ghost stripes,” a reminder of the tabby gene that all cats carry, even if it isn’t expressed in their coat, but these generally fade, leaving the cat with the solid blue coat of maturity. You might think that a Russian Blue would only come in blue, and in CFA that is true, but other cat associations have more liberal breed standards. In Australia and New Zealand, the cats are called “Russians” and come in white and black as well as the traditional blue. The American Cat Fanciers Association permits black Russians.
Russian Blues have a tolerant nature toward children who treat them kindly and respectfully. They will even put up with the clumsy pats given by toddlers, as if they recognize that no harm is meant, and if necessary they will walk away or climb out of reach to escape being bonked on the head.
That said, the patient and gentle Russian Blue should always be protected from rough treatment, so always supervise very young children when they want to pet the cat. The Russian Blue is also accepting of other animals, including dogs, as long as they aren’t chased or menaced by them. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
