Sometimes fondly, though tellingly, known as the “little black devil”, the Schipperke is a brash, intelligent, and entertaining small Belgian breed. Although most of the evidence points to it descending from herding dogs, it has traditionally been used as a guard dog and vermin hunter for most of its history, and it still excels in both roles today. A devoted and intensely loyal family member, it is distrustful of strangers, and has a piercing bark that it will use whenever it deems necessary – which, for most Schipperkes, is often! In keeping with its outwardly fox-like appearance, it is a clever and mischievous breed, and its owner needs to be capable of handling, directing, and enjoying its antics. While most are quick to snap at a stranger (or a vet!), this is not the case with their families, and they are gentle and protective around children.
Schipperkes thrive on having a job to do, and are employed by various emergency services around Europe. Unsurprisingly, they need to be kept active and busy when living as pets, and they can be destructive and excessively noisy if under-stimulated. Daily walks should be supplemented with time in a secure garden, where they can use their keen sense of smell and hearing to seek out anything that scuttles and scurries – squirrels beware! Despite their capabilities as hunters, Schipperkes are generally quite reliable around cats once they are familiar with them. This is an especially long-lived breed, for although it has an average life expectancy of 12 to 14 years, around one in five live beyond 15 years of age. However, health problems are common, and prospective owners need to research their puppy’s family history thoroughly before buying.
The Schipperke’s name translates from Flemish to either “little shepherd” or “little captain”, and either would be appropriate. It originated in the St. Gery district of Brussels, and it seems likely to have been selected as a smaller variant of the Leauvenaar, a herding breed from which the much larger Belgian Shepherd is also descended. For hundreds of years, it was a favourite of the city’s shoemakers, who used it to keep their workshops secure and free from rats and mice. There was a long tradition of these tradesmen making ornate hammered brass collars for their dogs and then displaying both the dog and its adornment at competitive shows. It was also popular with people living and trading on canal barges, where its talents were also put to good use.
The Schipperke was first presented for judging at a dog show in the town of Spa in 1882, the same year in which a Belgian author described the breed as the “devil, without the cloven hoof and tail”! Clearly, many of the dog’s modern traits were already well developed at this point in time. Partly due to Queen Marie-Henriette’s influence, the Schipperke received international attention at an early stage, and was exported to the United Kingdom and the United States in the 1880s, becoming one of the earliest breeds to be registered with the majority of the major Kennel Clubs.
The Schipperke is sometimes erroneously described as a Spitz, and while it may not be closely related to this family, it does share the compact, upright shape, and dense coat seen in the German Spitz, for example. It has a wedge-shaped, fox-like head, with prominent arching above the eyes and in the cheeks. The top-line of its skull and muzzle run in parallel, with a pronounced stop dividing the two. Its lips and eyelids are tight-fitting, and the small nose is always jet-black in colour. A pincer bite is considered acceptable by the breed standard, and many individuals lack several of their premolars as a natural feature. The Schipperke’s dark brown eyes are small, lively, and almond-shaped. Its small triangular ears are held upright, but are always on the move in response to the slightest sound.
The body is sturdy and square, with its bulk slightly exaggerated by the dense ruff of hair that stands out all around the neck, shoulders, and limbs. The chest is reasonably broad and deep, and the abdomen is moderately tucked. Traditionally, the Schipperke’s tail was docked very short, but in most dogs it should be long, and may be curled over the back – another feature it may have in common with the Spitzes. However, some are born tail-less, or may have unusually shaped or rudimentary tails; these are not penalised according to the breed standard.
Despite the compact, broad outline of the body, the limbs are quite fine-boned and dainty, but they should also be well formed, without deviation, and allow a smart, brisk trot as the dog’s preferred pace. The very dense coat is always black, although the undercoat may be a dark grey that is disguised by the longer primary hairs. Schipperkes range in height from 25 to 35 cm at the top of the withers, and in weight from 4 to 8 kg.
This is a charismatic little dog, with each Schipperke having a very individual personality. They are highly intelligent, aware of everything going on around them, and have an uncanny ability to understand what their owners are saying. The breed has spent a good portion of its history living in close confines with a small number of people, whether on a barge or within a small workshop, and as one would expect, it prefers the company of those it knows well.
Most owners will agree that training a Schipperke requires a great deal of patience, and an equal amount of assertiveness. These dogs do not lack intelligence, but often prefer to determine their own actions rather than be directed by a human. These traits are part of the reason they excel in search and rescue and detection work, but they need to be overcome by a consistent, firm-but-fair approach.
Although the Schipperke’s breed clubs around the world are working hard on eliminating hereditary health problems, some notable issues persist in the breed:
The Schipperke is one of the breeds at increased risk of becoming dependent on injected insulin to regulate its blood glucose levels. Signs of diabetes in middle-aged dogs include excess thirst, increased appetite, and dramatic weight loss.
A brain disorder causing intermittent seizures. First signs generally emerge between six months and five years of age. These seizures range in severity and frequency, and many dogs can live a full life without treatment; however, veterinary advice should be sought in every case.
The most common hormone disorder in many breeds. Subnormal thyroid function arises following an autoimmune attack on the paired thyroid glands in the neck, and results in reduced energy levels, obesity, and hair and skin changes.
Seen occasionally in young Schipperkes in whom the ball formed by the top of the thigh bone outgrows its blood supply, causing it to weaken and fracture. This causes intense pain and marked hindlimb lameness. Surgery is necessary to allow normal limb function.
This is the most significant inherited disease seen in the breed. Genetically affected individuals gradually accumulate waste substances in their nerve cells in the first few years of life, and begin to develop signs of incoordination and muscular weakness in young adulthood.
There is no effective treatment, and as many as one in seven Schipperkes are affected. A genetic test is available, and this should be used to screen all adults before breeding.
The Schipperke is a very energetic dog, and will always react instantly to anything going on around it – it is definitely not a couch potato. However, it does not need a huge amount of structured exercise, and will cope with as little as half an hour every day so long as it also has access to a secure garden. As a vermin hunter, having untethered access to the outdoors allows it to exercise its instincts to root around in search of rodents and insects, and will help prevent any behavioural problems arising from boredom.
Although the coat is dense and sheds reasonably heavily, it is very easy to care for, needing only weekly brushing for most of the year. During the heavy moults of the spring and autumn, this frequency may need to be increased, but the Schipperke rarely needs to be washed, and should never be clipped. Its nails are likely to need clipping every few weeks, with the sound of them clicking on hard surfaces indicating that they are too long.
This is a simple task, but because of the dog’s black nails, it can be difficult to tell how much is a safe amount to remove without drawing blood. Owners may find it helpful to have a groomer or veterinary nurse demonstrate a safe technique for the first few attempts at clipping.
The breed usually keeps a low profile, but the actor Mark Ruffalo credits his female Schipperke, named Frieda, with saving his 18-month-old son from drowning in the family’s pond, after seeing the dog use her front paws to push the child backwards away from the pond's edge.
While they may not be the cuddly, people-loving designer dog for everyone, there are a few Schipperke cross-breeds that are sometimes seen for sale:
Copyright © 2016 - 2019 DogZone.com - Privacy | Authors | Contact
--------------------------------------------------
LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Thinking of getting a Schipperke and would like to know if Schipperkes are get along with cats?
Find out all about Schipperke cat friendliness and how to make your Schipperke get along better with cats on this site.



A common mistake a great deal of people make is believing that all pets hate felines and all cats hate dogs. This isn’t real and there are lots of canine breeds that get along with cats. Dogs that aren’t naturally cat friendly can likewise be trained to be safer around felines.
From the opinion of professional Schipperke dog experts, Schipperke dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of how friendly they are with cats.



Despite the mistaken belief, a great deal of dogs and felines can cohabit in harmony. Follow these easy to follow steps to learn how to best introduce your Schipperke with a feline.


Not all Schipperkes hate cats, some get along with them. When Schipperkes do hate cats, of the most common factor is quite straightforward. Like all dogs, Schipperkes still keep some of the hunting tendencies that they were initially bred for. This is why Schipperkes love chasing all moving items, whether it’s a toy, rodent, or a feline.
Because many felines will run away when they come across, it’s simple to see why they are understood for not getting along with each other. Schipperkes in fact delight in chasing after felines not because they hate them, however generally since a quick running animal sets off a powerful, natural instinct to go after overcomes any training or socialisation.


Training your Schipperke to quit chasing cats requires time, training and consistency, but the reward of not needing to worry about them continually chasing is very well worth it. Here are the points of how to stop your Schipperke from chasing felines.


The very best method to ensure your Schipperke would never kill a feline is to raise them with cats when they’re a puppy prior to 3 months old. At this age, they will typically want to have fun with the cats and won’t see them as prey.
If your Schipperke has actually killed a feline previously, its ideal if you keep them in an open, fenced off area. When taking them for walks try to prevent going after sunset and before dawn because that’s when cats are very active and likely to be wandering the streets.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
Get a quote by answering a few simple questions
Find out more about our dog insurance policy
Whether you have two dogs, two cats, one of each or more. You can quote for for multiple pets and get 5% discount.
Schipperke
"Caspar"
Lifespan: 13-15 Years
Avg height: 25-33cm.
Avg weight: 4.5-7.2kg
Coat type: LMedium-length, straight, double coat.
Coat colours: Black.
Originally bred for: Barge watchdog and companion.
Breed traits: Active, curious, alert, intelligent, stubborn, interactive.


The Schipperke is a devoted companion and is an excellent watchdog. They do have a high prey drive due to their history of hunting vermin on barges, thus small animals in the home would be highly unsuitable to this breed. They enjoy being with their owners as much as possible and make for a highly interactive companion.
Conditions the Schipperke may be predisposed to include: Progressive Retinal Atrophy, Hip Dysplasia, Hypothyroidism, Mucopolysaccharidosis Type IIIb, Epilepsy, Autoimmune skin problems, Cushing’s Disease, Diabetes, Atopy.
Provide assurance for your dogs health
Provide assurance for your cats health
Tips and articles on how to better take care of your dog
“I’ve never had such a good experience with an insurance company. Such a good experience during such a difficult time”.  – Sandra, owner of Ide in NSW.
--------------------------------------------------
Collection of all the general dog breed info about Schipperke so you can get to know the breed more.
Due to its popularity, inbreeding may occur. A new study shows that inbreeding contributes to the incidence of disease and health problems.
The Schipperke is one of the top breeds in the dog intelligence ranking.
They are receptive to their owner's emotions and make wonderful family companions.
Top reasons for barking: protection, alarm, fear, boredom, attention-seeking, greeting, separation anxiety, compulsive barking.
Low  🔽
Between 100 and 200 PSI  🔽
Schipperke bite wounds might not be as severe, but it is still essential to be cautious and prevent any biting incidents.
They are usually not aggressive and very friendly towards children and other animals. To ensure a well-behaved dog, it's essential to learn how to train a Schipperke puppy not to bite from an early age. With proper training and socialization, a Schipperke can be a wonderful addition to any family, providing love and companionship for years to come.
Do Schipperke dogs need a lot of exercises?
If you notice any weight gain, consult your veterinarian and make a diet plan. Reduce unhealthy food and snacks, and measure the Schipperke weight regularly.
Ears and eyes should be cleaned regularly to avoid infections. Schipperke is a good choice if you don't have the time, skill, or money to take care of a high-maintenance dog.
If you notice any change in your dog's drooling habit, you should contact a vet as soon as possible.
Medium  ⏺
Bathing will wash away your dog’s natural oils, while a simple brushing every few days should keep them clean.
Not really This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Schipperke is not the best breed for service purposes.
This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Schipperke is not the best breed for service purposes.
Schipperke is not the best breed for service purposes.
Not really This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Schipperke is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Schipperke is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Schipperke is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Not really They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Schipperke is not the best breed for detection purposes.
They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Schipperke is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Schipperke is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Not really This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Schipperke is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Schipperke is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
The Schipperke is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
Yes
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, as a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Not really A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Schipperke is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Schipperke is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Schipperke is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Not really In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
60-64 days
During this time the females start to attract males. You can notice by swelling vulva and bloody discharge.
The second part is the Estrus when the female is receptive for the male. It lasts for about 3 to 11 days.
The sign of the proestrus part is the soft and enlarged vulva. The discharge decreases and lightens in color.
The third part is the Diestrus. Normally, it occurs around day 14. In this period the female’s discharge changes for vivid red and coming to its end. The vulva returns to average, and she will no longer permit mating.
The fourth part called the Anestrus. The time frame between heat periods normally lasts about six months.
Once a year.
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages.
The Schipperke’s origins go back to the late medieval days of Belgium. The Schipperke’s exact origins are mostly foggy and unknown, because of the lack of records. The Schipperke was bred in Flanders, the Dutch-speaking part of Belgium. Despite the dog’s foxy-faced looks, they are not derived from any kinds of Spitz or Pomeranian. It is widely presumed that the breed is descended from a black sheepdog called a Leauvenaar, the same dog, which is credited to be a predecessor of the Belgian Sheepdog, the Groenendael. The Belgian Sheepdog was bred to be a large working animal, while the Schipperke was bred down in size in order to be a very different, distinct dog breed. While the Groenendael was created to be a herding breed, the Schipperke was developed to be a small watchdog.
The Schipperke was often seen guarding the boats that plied the canals between Antwerp and Brussels, making the breed earned its fame as shipboard exterminators on the canals that crisscrossed the Low Countries. The breed makes a great guarding and protecting dog when the boat anchors for the night, alerting you of anything suspicious out of the ordinary. Despite the breed’s smaller size, the dog possesses a healthy barking ability, which can be a bit striking and surprising to a stranger’s ears. The little black avenger of the Belgian dockyards was also a fearless watchdog on barges and in city shops. It was among the sailors and shopkeepers of Brussels and Antwerp that these quick, agile dogs earned the nickname “schipperke,” Flemish for “little captain.”
Even though the breeding process started in the 1600s, the breed’s popularity started to increase just in the 1800s in the households of Belgium. Early on the breed was mostly known among peasants who were restricted in the size of dogs they could keep. The breed made its first international appearance in a dog show in 1880, and from that moment on, the Schipperke was exported to all parts of the world. Interestingly, initially, the breed was called Spitske or Spits, but as soon as the official club for the breed was founded in 1880, the breed became known as the Schipperke after its historical origins and heritage in Belgium’s ports.
After Queen Marie Henriette saw one Schipperke at a dog show in Brussels in 1885, the breed quickly became a favorite pet for the nobles and royalty all around Europe. Thanks to the increasing popularity, the breed eventually got exported to the United States of America, in 1888. In 1929, a dedicated club (Schipperke Club of America) was formed for the Schipperke. The AKC (American Kennel Club) also recognized the breed, in 1904. Today, despite the fact that the breed’s popularity is not significant, the Schipperke is loved for its versatility, cleverness, and devotion to its owners.
Mar 31, 2022, 5:33:55 PM:
Gary is my third Schipperke. I love the breed. It was love at first sight. Then , it was the personality and habits that kept me hooked. Tough little guys but they light up my life!!!
Jul 22, 2020, 5:10:06 AM:
I have a Schipperke. She is the best dog ever! I would love to breed them. Most Americans don't know this breed. They don't know what they're missing... the BEST.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Welshea, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 3, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Schipperke is a little-known but extremely historic dog breed with personalities that are hard to forget. They’re small and spunky, funny and loyal, and once you get to hang out with one, you’ll fall head over heels in love with them.
Not only do they have some of the best personalities, but they’re one of the cutest dog breeds around!
Height:
10–13 inches
Weight:
10–16 pounds
Lifespan:
12–16 years
Colors:
Black, apricot, black & tan, blue, chocolate, cream, fawn, gray, red, white
Suitable for:
Experienced pet owners, those looking for an active dog, and those looking for a lap dog
Temperament:
Loyal, intelligent, easy to train, vigilant, and protective
These dogs date back hundreds of years and have served as ratters, herders, watchdogs, sailors, and so much more. They might be small in stature, but they have huge personalities and are as versatile as they come.
No matter what you’re looking for, with some proper training, they can fit the bill, and once they bond with you, you won’t find a more loyal pet. But with so many great traits, why aren’t these dogs more popular? It’s all got to do with that big personality.
While the Schipperke has quite an extensive history, they’re far from the most popular dog breed in the United States. Because of this, if you’re looking to get a Schipperke, you’ll likely need to travel a bit to find a reputable breeder, unless you’re incredibly lucky and happen to have one near you.
It’s also unlikely that you’ll find a Schipperke in a shelter, even if they’re not purebred. These are highly sought-after dogs, so if you want one, you’ll need to find a breeder.
Do your research and find a reputable breeder, though. You don’t want to support a puppy mill, even if you want a rarer dog. Not only do puppy mills harm the parent dogs, but they’re also more likely to produce pups with health problems.
Whether you’re looking at ancient origins or modern recognition, the Schipperke has quite an extensive history. The breed originally comes from Belgium where they served as ratters for hundreds of years.
Meanwhile, the first Schipperke came to the United States in 1888, and the American Kennel Club (AKC) officially recognized the breed in 1904. And since the Schipperke first appeared in a dog show in Brussels in 1690, the formal recognition from the AKC was overdue!

With generations of breeding to keep these dogs as watchdogs and ratters, the Schipperke is a watchful dog that tends to know where everyone is at all times. They’re especially wary around strangers, and without proper training and socialization, this wariness can lead to nipping and biting.
Overall, they’re incredibly adaptive dogs and can thrive in a wide array of environments, whether it’s a traditional house pet, a working dog, or something in between. They’re not always the best choice for first-time pet owners, but they’re extremely loving and will happily spend as much time with you as they can get.
Generally, the Schipperke is a great family dog as long as you provide them with the necessary socialization. However, because of their smaller size, you should be especially careful with them around smaller children.
It doesn’t take much for a toddler learning to walk to stumble into a Schipperke and significantly injure themselves. Teach your pup and your kids to watch each other’s space and act appropriately around each other and you won’t likely have any problems.
While a Schipperke can get along with other dogs if you socialize them early on, this isn’t always the case with other types of pets. These dogs were originally ratters, and as such, they have a deeply ingrained tendency to go after smaller animals.
Socialization can often help with this, but it isn’t foolproof, so you’ll want to get to know your pet and schedule some meet and greets before bringing any new animals into your home.

The Schipperke is an extremely adaptable dog, but they can also be a bit temperamental. This makes knowing what you’re getting yourself into all the more important, which is why we took the time to highlight some basic care requirements for you just below.
Because of their smaller size, you don’t need to feed a Schipperke all that much. It’s still important to feed them high-quality food, though, whether it’s kibble, wet food, or fresh food. For kibble, you can feed them between ¾ and 1 ¼ cups of food daily, depending on your pup’s size and the brand of food you go with.
Furthermore, keep in mind that because they’re so small that it doesn’t take many treats for it to be too many. Be careful with how much you’re feeding them, and be careful about how many treats you’re offering.

A post shared by Mus The Schipperke 🐾 (@mustheschipperke)

While the Schipperke is an active little dog, because of their smaller size, it’s usually easier to meet their daily exercise requirements. We recommend at least one walk a day, which should last at least 15 to 20 minutes.
From there, they’ll appreciate some time at the dog park or in a fenced-in yard, but often, you can play with them inside and still meet their daily exercise needs.
While these dogs are generally eager to please, you still need to take the time to train them if you want them to listen to commands and be well-behaved. Consistency is critical when training them, and you need at least one training session daily.
Each session should only last between 10 and 15 minutes. Stick solely with positive reinforcement to encourage positive behavior, and to really lock in their attention, bring a few of their favorite treats.

A post shared by HoneyB (@honeyb_doodle)

The Schipperke generally needs minimal grooming. You should brush them once a week throughout most of the year, but if they’re in a high-shedding season, you will need to brush them more frequently.
Brush their teeth once daily to keep up with their oral hygiene, and check on their nails about once a week to ensure you don’t need to trim them.
Like many purebred breeds, the Schipperke can suffer from numerous genetic health problems, even if they’re considered one of the healthier breeds. Take your dog to the vet for frequent checkups, and consider signing them up for a pet insurance plan to help cover any future vet bills.
Finally, getting your pup from a reputable breeder who offers a health guarantee and references can help mitigate the risk of your Schipperke developing any of the following conditions.
For the most part, male and female Schipperkes are extremely similar. While you might notice some personality differences, this almost always has to do with the dog’s individual personality instead of their gender.
In fact, the only real notable difference between a male and female is their size. Males tend to stand 1 to 2 inches taller and weigh a few more pounds. It’s not something you’re likely to notice all that much, but considering their smaller size, it is a notable difference.

Today, these dogs act much bigger than they are, and when you look at some of their previous jobs, it’s not hard to see why. People in Belgium once used these tiny pups to herd livestock, and it took a dog with a ton of confidence and a big personality to get the job done
These pups once spent a ton of time on ships as watchdogs, and it’s why their name starts with “Schip,” which is the Flemish word for “boat.” They earned the nickname “little captain” and “little skipper,” which is well-earned!
While their small size might make you think they’re great for apartment living, the problem is they like to bark and make noise. It all comes from their watchdog lineage, so consider this before bringing one home.

A post shared by Светлана Кузьмина (@totemurala)


While they might seem like the perfect companion, we highly recommend taking your time before deciding to bring one of these dogs home. They’re great companions, but they also have big personalities, so ensure you’re completely ready to handle everything they have to throw at you.
If so, you’re going to find these pups challenging, rewarding, funny, loving, and so much more. They’re going to turn into your best friend, but they will test you every step of the way!
Featured Image Credit: Welshea, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Adam is a professional freelance writer and animal enthusiast who has rescued countless animals  throughout the years. He's been a freelance writer for ten years and has been rescuing animals  for even longer! Adam is also a proud father of three kids and is always up for a challenge and adventure!
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
