The Scottish Fold is a distinctive breed of domestic cat characterised by a natural dominant gene mutation associated with osteochondrodysplasia. This genetic anomaly affects cartilage throughout the body, causing the ears to "fold", bending forward and down towards the front of the head. While this trait contributes to the breed's unique appearance, often described as "owl-like",[1] it also causes health problems.
The breed's name, originally Lop-ears or Lops after the lop-eared rabbit, became Scottish Fold in 1966.[1] Depending on registries, longhaired Scottish Folds are varyingly known as Highland Fold, Scottish Fold Longhair, Longhair Fold, and Coupari.
Research has revealed that all Scottish Fold cats are affected by osteochondrodysplasia, a developmental abnormality that affects cartilage and bone development throughout the body. This condition causes the ear fold as well as malformed bone structures, and the breed can develop severe painful degenerative joint diseases at an early age.[2] Because of these health conditions, breeding Fold cats is prohibited in several countries, and some major cat registries do not recognise the breed.
The original Scottish Fold was a white barn cat named Susie, who was found at a farm near Coupar Angus in Tayside, Scotland, in 1961. Susie's ears had an unusual fold in their middle, making her resemble an owl. When Susie had kittens, two of them were born with folded ears, and one was acquired by William Ross and his wife, Molly, neighbouring farmers who were cat fanciers.[3]  The breeding programme produced 76 kittens in the first three years – 42 with folded ears and 34 with straight ears. The conclusion from this was that the ear mutation is due to a simple dominant gene.[4] Ross registered the breed with the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF) in the United Kingdom in 1966 and started to breed Scottish Fold kittens with the help of geneticist Pat Turner. However by the early 1970s the GCCF stopped registering the cat due to concerns about potential health issues such as ear infections and deafness.
In 1970 the first Scottish Fold kittens were introduced to America via a Dr. Neil Todd of Massachusetts who was researching the mutation. Further cats were brought over and the Scottish Fold breeding program continued with American Shorthairs and British Shorthairs being introduced.[5]
In 1978 the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) granted the breed championship status.
In the mid 1980s the long-haired version started to gain recognition.[5]
The International Cat Association (TICA) was the first registry to recognized the longhairs for championship competition in the 1987-88 show season and CFA followed in 1993-94.
Scottish Fold kittens that do not develop folded ears are known as Scottish Straights.[6]
The Scottish Fold is a medium to large sized cat, which can come in any colour, even calico. Males typically weigh 4–6 kg (8.8–13.2 lb), and females weigh 2.7–4 kg (6.0–8.8 lb). The Fold's entire body structure, especially the head and face, is generally rounded, and the eyes large and round. The nose is short with a gentle curve, and the cat's body is well-rounded with a padded look and medium-to-short legs. The head is domed at the top, and the neck very short. The broadly-spaced eyes give the Scottish Fold a "sweet expression".[4]
Scottish Folds can be either long- or short-haired, and they may have nearly any coat colour or combination of colours (including white).[4] Shorthair Scottish Folds have thick and soft fur, with longhair Folds having longer fur and tufts located around the extremities.[7]
An early study suggested that the fold is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.[8] A later study suggested an incomplete dominance.[9] A cat with folded ears may have either one (heterozygous) or two copies (homozygous) of the dominant fold gene (Fd). A cat with normal ears should have two copies of the normal gene (fd).
Mating a homozygous fold with any cat will produce all folds, but because homozygous folds are prone to severe health issues, breeding for them is generally considered unethical. A homozygous to normal mating will produce only heterozygous folds but presumably in ethical breeding programs, there will be no homozygous cats available to breed from.
The only generally accepted breeding gives a 50% chance of producing heterozygous folds and 50% chance of producing progeny with normal genes.
There is suspicion that some non-fold litters are genetically heterozygous folds but because of very low expression of the gene, appear to be straight-eared. Such kittens may develop folded ears initially which then straighten back out. Because of this there are suggestions by some breeders to avoid mating Folds with straight-eared Scottish Folds but only use British Shorthairs (BSH) as outcross.[10][11] If Scottish Shorthairs are to be used, they should be test mated to a BSH to make sure that they are not genetically folds.[10] If such apparent straight-eared cats are mated with a fold, there is a 75% chance of folds (25% homozygous folds, 50% heterozygous folds) and 25% chance of straight ears.
In 2016, the genetic mutation responsible for the folded ears and the osteochondrodysplasia was identified. It was found in a gene encoding a calcium permeable ion channel, transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily V, member 4 (Trpv4).[12] The mutation is a V342F substitution (c.1024G>T) in the fifth ankyrin repeat within the N-terminal cytoplasmic domain. It was also found in a human patient with metatropic dysplasia.[13]
Legal bans on the breeding and sometimes sale of Folds have been enacted in several countries, including Australia, Austria, Belgium, Netherlands, Norway, and Scotland, due to the breed's health issues, especially deformities and pain caused by osteochondrodysplasia, which results in abnormalities in bone and cartilage throughout the body. Some of the major cat registries, such as the GCCF and FIFe, do not recognise, nor allow for the registry and competition showing of, Scottish folds.
Due to the prevalence of osteochondrodysplasia in the breed (see below), several countries and states have prohibited breeding with Scottish folds, in order to protect animal welfare. Banning countries include the Netherlands in 2014,[14] Austria in 2020,[15][16] Flanders (Belgium) in 2021,[17] Victoria (Australia).[18] The breed is also indirectly banned by Norwegian and Swedish legislation prohibiting the breeding of animals with genetic make up that makes it likely to produce unhealthy offspring.[19][20]  Some countries have also banned selling[17] of Scottish fold cats, or the breeding with any cat that bears the gene mutation resulting in osteochondrodysplasia, so even breeding with some of the Scottish straights may be legally restricted.[14] Potential parent cats can be tested for this mutation before breeding.[21]
Because of its health problems, the breed is not accepted by either the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy[22][23] or the Fédération Internationale Féline (FIFe).[24][25]  GCCF withdrew registrations in 1971 due to crippling deformity of the limbs and tail in some cats and concerns about genetic difficulties and ear problems such as infection, mites, and deafness, but the Folds were exported to the Americas and the breed continued to be established, using outcrossing with British Shorthairs and American Shorthairs. Since the initial concerns were brought, the Fold breed has not had the mite and infection problems.[1]
Cat Fanciers' Association breeders have stated that using only fold to non-fold breeding has eliminated problems with stiff tails, shortened tails, and bone lesions.[1] In the FIFe discussion, the representative for British breeders claimed that they were not seeing the problem in their cats, and that the study which showed that all heterozygous also have the condition had a small sample size. An offer of free X-ray radiography was presented to 300 breeders to find a Fold cat with healthy hind legs, but it was never taken up.[26][27] A similar offer was set up by the World Cat Federation together with researcher Leslie Lyons but there was also no response. FIFe stated that they will not consider recognizing Scottish Folds if breeders will not allow their breed to be scrutinized.[28]
In a report on Scottish Folds, the Breed Standards Advisory Council for New Zealand Cat Fancy (NZCF) states that "Breeders may not have appreciated the strength of the evidence that heterozygous cats can and do develop [feline] OCD." While research shows that all heterozygous Folds develop OCD, and anecdotal evidence shows that heterozygous Folds can and do develop OCD, they do not show whether mildly affected parents are more likely to have mildly affected offspring. They also do not show what percentage of Folds are severely affected. The report states that there is not enough information to justify banning Scottish Fold matings, but enough to justify a level of concern.[10] Recommended guidelines include:
Despite warnings from organisation such as GCCF ("we strongly advise members of the public not to try to acquire cats of this breed"[23]), the distinctive physical traits of the Scottish Fold, combined with their reputation as unusually loving companions, make Folds highly sought-after pets, with Fold kittens typically costing considerably more than kittens of more common breeds.[29] Scottish folds are also popular among celebrities, one of them being American singer Taylor Swift, who owns two Scottish fold cats named Meredith Grey (after the titular character of the medical drama series Grey's Anatomy), and Olivia Benson (after the protagonist of the police drama series Law & Order: Special Victims Unit).[30]
Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is prevalent in the Scottish Fold.[31] A study in Japan of cats suspected to have kidney problems found that 54% of tested Scottish Fold cats had the PKD1 mutation, which is responsible for PKD.[32]
A study in Japan found two genes linked to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the Scottish Fold population.[33]
A defect of aural cartilage gives the Scottish Fold the characteristic appearance. This cartilage defect is caused by an autosomal dominant gene. This mutation also causes a shortened and stiff tail that lacks rigidity. It also causes a skeletal dysplasia known as osteochondrodysplasia. All Scottish Fold cats develop arthritis: heterozygous cats develop a progressive form of arthritis and homozygous cats develop a severe arthritis much quicker than heterozygous cats.  Near the tarsal and metatarsal joints exostosis forms in kittens with the condition. Endochondral ossification is retarded and metatarsal and metacarpal bones fail to reach full length and develop abnormally result in improper shapes for the bones. Treatment is possible with either palliative radiation and surgery, which can be either excising the exostoses or a bilateral pantarsal arthrodesis can alleviate lameness; however, given all fold cats will become affected the only solution is the cessation of breeding of affected cats.[34]
In a 2021 study,[35] four radiologists, blinded to the ear phenotype, assessed radiographs of 22 Scottish Fold/Straight cats. All cats were genotyped showing the heterozygous mutation in all folded ear cats but not in straight cats. Each reviewer gave on average the folded ear cats a worse "severity score", however the images showed much milder signs than previously published. The authors state that the severity of OCD in heterozygous cats is very variable and subtle. This could be due to other modifier genes or nurture (climate, diet, exercise). So it was shown that the least affected folded ear cat was given identical or less score than the highest rated straight ear cat.
In a 2020 case study,[36] two Scottish Fold mixed cats with severe exostosis in the hind leg are described. Both cats were homozygous for the Trpv4 mutation, assuming the parental cats had both the c.1024G>T mutation in the TrpV4 gene. This reinforces the hypothesis that mostly homozygous Scottish Folds are severely affected.[37] On the other hand it is concerning that still Scottish Fold cats are bred with each other,  also breeding with other cat strains with skeletal abnormalities (Munchkin, American Curl) should be avoided.
In a large retrospective Australian study [38] over 30,000 patient records from veterinary clinics were searched for specific keywords to look for the occurrence of OCD in Scottish Fold cats. Of 1131 Scottish Folds, 12 were detected with OCD (1.1%) and 5.7% were suspected of OCD.
In a study by Sartore et al.[39], in which folded-eared cats were genetically analyzed and only one specific gene variant (c.1024G>T) was examined, it was found that 1 out of 12 cats showed signs of OCD. The authors speculate that it is not just this mutation in the Trpv4 gene that is responsible for the development of OCD.
Because heterozygous Scottish Folds also develop progressive arthritis of varying severity, some researchers recommend abandoning the breeding of Fold cats entirely.[8][40]
The short novel The Cat Who Went to Paris by Peter Gethers features "the most famous Scottish Fold" according to Grace Sutton of The Cat Fanciers' Association.[1] The book  - and the two that followed - document the life of Gethers and his Fold, Norton, from their first meeting to Norton's eventual death and Gethers' experiences after the loss.
--------------------------------------------------
Cat Breeds
With just one look at the adorable Scottish Fold cat, it’s easy to see how this breed got its name! With their folded ears and sweet expressions, these family-friendly cats are cute beyond compare. Scottish Fold cats get along well with kids and other pets, including friendly cats and well-behaved dogs.
Gentle and playful, Scottish Fold cats are less rambunctious than many other breeds. They are happy to spend time simply enjoying your company, and they're likely to follow you throughout the house as you complete your daily routine.
If you're someone who is looking for a cat that likes to converse, consider a Scottish Fold. Some vocal breeds like the Siamese are quite loud, but the Scottish Fold's voice is much quieter. These cats can develop quite an interesting vocabulary, which they use to express themselves and chat to you about everything from the level of food in their dish to the fact that it's time for you to wake up in the morning. Talk to a Scottish Fold, and you can expect quite a bit of chatter in return.
Scottish Fold cats enjoy company and dislike being left alone. Luckily, these cats are perfectly happy with companionship from another animal on those days when you need to work or spend several hours per day away from home for another reason,. When you return, you can count on a happy greeting.
The Scottish Fold cat has no special nutritional needs, however we recommend offering a high-quality food with a high level of protein and minimal carbohydrates. If you are offering a commercial brand rather than fresh food, ensure that the first ingredient is real meat or fish.
Brush short-haired Scottish Fold once or twice a week to remove any loose hair. Long-haired Scottish Folds require more frequent grooming—daily or every other day—to prevent tangles and mats.
If your cat's ears are tightly folded, you might need to help your cat keep them clean and prevent buildup. At least once or twice per week, use a cotton ball moistened with a 50-50 mixture of warm water and vinegar to gently wipe beneath the folds. Never attempt to clean the interior portion of your cat's ears with cotton swabs—you could accidentally injure their eardrum. If it appears as though wax and debris is building up down inside the ear and out of reach of your cotton balls, give your vet a call. They can safely clean this sensitive area while protecting your cat's hearing.
Two other important grooming routines are nail trimming (weekly to every other week) and toothbrushing (daily). Teach your kitten to accept this type of handling from a young age to prevent struggles later in life.
The Scottish Fold cat likes to play, particularly when there’s at least one friend to join in the fun. If you have two cats, expect them to run, jump, and climb together. If it's just you and your cat, they'll appreciate every opportunity for interactive play.
Just like other cats, Scottish Folds appreciate window seats, cat trees, scratching posts, puzzle toys, and everyday objects like cardboard bags and boxes. The more opportunities you take to enrich your cat's environment, the happier they will be.
Later in life, your Scottish Fold might need more encouragement to engage in energetic play sessions between naps. Keep an eye on their weight and try to increase activity if possible since obesity can make joint problems and other conditions worse.
The dominant gene that causes a Scottish Fold cat's ears to flop forward can also cause skeletal deformities when Scottish Fold cats with folded ears are bred to one another. For this reason, responsible breeders pair one Scottish Fold with folded ears with a straight-eared Scottish Fold. Breeders can also  outcross to one of two breeds, either an American Shorthair or British Shorthair.
The genetic mutation that causes the breed's folded ears can also cause severe abnormalities to some cat's bones and cartilage, especially in the ankle, knee, and tail joints. The disorder, called osteochondrodysplasia, is more likely to occur when cats have two copies of the mutated gene rather than one, which may only cause folded ears.
Some Scottish Fold cats are also prone to developing polycystic kidney disease and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (a type of heart disease), conditions that are common among many otherwise healthy cat breeds.
The first Scottish Fold was a white barn cat named Susie. Like many cats that capture breeders' interest, Susie had a unique genetic trait: Folded ears caused by softened cartilage that prevented the ears from standing up like an average cat’s ears.
Susie was happily catching mice on a farm in the Tayside region of Scotland when she captured the attention of a shepherd named William Ross. In 1961, he and his wife Mary acquired one of Susie's female kittens when she had a litter by a local tomcat with normal, stand up ears. They named the kitten Snooks and when she reached adulthood, she was mated with a British Shorthair and had a litter of her own.
Some of the resulting kittens had folded ears, leading them to call the new hybrid "lop-eared cats." Ross registered the Scottish Fold cat breed with UK’s Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF) in 1966.
In 1971, Dr. Neil Todd brought the first Scottish Fold cats to the United States. One of these cats found a home with a Pennsylvania breeder named Sally Wolfe Peters. She is credited with developing the breed as it exists in the United States today. Scottish Fold breeders still outcross Scottish Folds with British Shorthairs or American Shorthairs, which contributes diversity to the gene pool.
By the middle of the 1970s, the Scottish Fold cat had gained official recognition by multiple breed registries. In 1978, the breed was granted championship status by the Cat Fanciers’ Association (CFA). Today, these adorable, personable cats are popular all over the world. The breed is also recognized by The International Cat Association (TICA).
The GCCF withdrew its recognition of the Scottish Fold in 1971 out of concern over potential skeletal defects that can lead to excruciating pain for affected individuals.
All Scottish Fold kittens are born with ears that appear straight. The ears begin to fold around 3 weeks of age.
Long-haired Scottish Folds are sometimes called Highland Fold cats.
Even though the Scottish Fold's ears have a unique shape, they're capable of rotating and making other motions similar to the average cat's ears.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Scottish Fold, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Scottish Fold or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Scottish Fold, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Scottish Fold cats cost between $1000 - $2000.
Scottish Fold cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Scottish Fold cat might weigh between 6-13 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8"- 10" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Scottish Fold is 13-15 years.
Scottish Fold are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
I have two, theyre half brothers. Such sweet cats
Is Highland Fold the same as Scottish Fold?
I don’t see Highland Fold on the cat breeds page.
Hi Lawrence, great question. The term “Highland Fold” just refers to the long-haired variety of the Scottish Fold.
Yes they are considered part of the Scottish fold family
I think the Scottish fold is gorgeous. I’ve made up my mind to get one for my sister for Christmas:-)
The Scottish Fold cats are so gorgeous. I would love one but is out of my price range unfortunately. They and the Bengal are my utmost favorites. But the Scottish fold is the number one choice.
Hi, I just got a Scottish fold kitten through Adopt a pet. Try to Adopt a pet or pet Finder. The price is much lower and often includes shots up to date with spay/neuter./ Good zluck.
I have a scotish streight that mated with a fold and all kittens have streight ears  how is this possible????
I read that one parent has to have straight ears, and the other folded and the kittens may be half-and-half..
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Alexander Sobol, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 29, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Scottish Folds (affectionately nicknamed “Lops”) are known for their unique, round faces and folded ears. This appearance is caused by a genetic mutation that causes the shape of their ears to be structured differently. Many people find this appealing, endearing trait, even saying that the Scottish Fold looks like it is smiling.
Height:
7 – 10 inches
Weight:
6 – 13 pounds
Lifespan:
13 – 16 years*
Colors:
Black, white, red, blue, silver, fawn, chocolate, lilac
Suitable for:
Families with children, families with dogs, apartment living
Temperament:
Friendly, social, and docile
*a proportion of Scottish Fold cats are humanely euthanized at a young age due to painful joint deformities, which brings the average lifespan of the Scottish Fold to around 10 years. However, you can expect a healthier Scottish Fold cat to have a lifespan of around 13-16 years.
The Scottish Fold is a medium-sized cat that comes in many lovely and unique colors. They are friendly, calm, and not excessively vocal. Many people find the Scottish Fold’s qualities incredibly appealing; however, not everyone can get their hands on this beloved cat. The Scottish Fold is a rare breed, so if you can bring one home, consider yourself lucky.

As mentioned before, the Scottish Fold is a difficult cat to come by. The rarity of this breed increases the price of Scottish Fold kittens, so even if you can find a breeder who specializes in Scottish Folds, you will have to make sure that you have room in your budget for it. If you discover a breeder who sells Scottish Folds at a shockingly low price, don’t fall for it. Prices that are too low are often an indication that something is amiss. Some Scottish Folds cost as much as $3,000, but you spend much less if you’re lucky enough to find one at a shelter or rescue center.
If you plan to purchase your Scottish Fold from a breeder, do thorough research to ensure that you work with an ethical, experienced, and reputable breeder. Before bringing your kitten home, make sure you can provide the essentials. This includes food, feeding and drinking dishes, litter, litter box, veterinary care, toys, and more.

Scottish Folds are adored for their excellent temperaments. They are known to be docile and friendly and quick to grow attached to their favorite humans. You won’t want to stay away from your Scottish Fold for too long, as they do not tolerate isolation very well. If you work often or are away from home for other reasons, you should consider getting another animal companion to keep your Scottish Fold company.
The Scottish Fold is ideal if you are looking for a cat that loves to cuddle. At the same time, your Scottish Fold will love to participate in playful activities. However, they are not the most active cat breed.
The Scottish Fold is an intelligent cat. This means they will require a lot of mental stimulation, and you can provide interactive puzzle toys to keep your cat entertained. You may also want to train your Scottish Fold to walk on a leash or perform fun tricks to keep your cat’s mind busy.
The Scottish Fold is gentle, sweet, and an overall excellent companion. They make great pets for individuals and families, as they love to give and receive attention. Their calm, kind personalities make them patient with children; however, it is important to teach younger children boundaries and how to handle cats gently. While the Scottish Fold may tolerate accidental roughness once or twice, your cat may grow fearful or distrustful of younger children who don’t handle them properly.
This breed is incredibly affectionate, so you can expect plenty of cuddles and snuggles. They may follow you around the house as you go about your day and won’t hesitate to venture out to meet unfamiliar guests.
Scottish Folds are friendly with other pets, assuming all animals involved have been socialized and introduced properly.
However, be aware of what animals you are trying to house together. If you bring home a bigger dog with a high prey drive, your dog may see the Scottish Fold as prey and may be inclined to chase. While the Scottish Fold is friendly and calm, they will certainly not appreciate being pursued around the house.

Before bringing a Scottish Fold home, it’s best to familiarize yourself with the breed so that you’ll know what to expect. Below, we’ll examine some of the most important characteristics to consider, including the cat’s food and diet requirements and how much exercise they require.
Scottish Folds are prone to obesity, so it is vital that you monitor your cat’s diet. While you are still allowed to give your Scottish Fold treats, it may be best to focus on low-calorie, healthy treats rather than those that are high in fat and calories.
A healthy feline diet will have an animal-based product listed as the first ingredient, such as chicken, turkey, duck, or salmon. It will also have a stamp of approval from The Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO), so check your cat’s food for that label.
The Scottish Fold is not a particularly active cat. It is perfectly content to play occasionally, follow you around the house, and spend most of its time cuddling or napping. However, being active is still an essential part of your cat’s health, so it is necessary that you encourage your Scottish Fold to exercise regularly.
As much as 15 minutes per day is enough to ensure that your Scottish Fold is getting the necessary physical exercise. Using a teaser wand with a feather or catnip mouse will get your cat moving, or you can use a laser pointer to tempt your cat to run.
The Scottish Fold is intelligent yet stubborn. They can be trained, but it requires more patience than other breeds. Although you must be careful with the number of treats you give your pet, you can use cat treats to entice your Scottish Fold to learn a few tricks. However, most will quickly learn to use the litter box properly without your encouragement.
Scottish Folds are moderate shedders and do not require much maintenance to keep their coats shiny and healthy. If you have a short-haired Scottish Fold, brushing them once a week will be sufficient. However, if you have a long-haired Scottish Fold, you must brush them several times weekly, if not daily. Like any cat, you should clean the Scottish Fold’s teeth every few days and trim their nails when necessary.
You will need to pay special attention to the ears with your Scottish Fold. While all cats should have their ears inspected, checking the Scottish Fold’s ears is crucial due to their predisposition for ear infections. If you notice issues with your Scottish Fold’s ears, contact your vet for a complete examination.
The Scottish Fold is typically a healthy cat, but there are some conditions that they are genetically predisposed to. Osteochondrodyplasia is a condition in which your cat’s cartilage develops abnormally, leading to a difference in the structure of the surrounding bones as well. This causes your Scottish Fold’s ears to fold in their unique and adorable shape, but it can also lead to improper formation of bone structures. As a result, your cat may experience diseases of the joints and other structures of the limbs.
Another condition that the Scottish Fold is prone to is polycystic kidney disease, in which your cat develops cysts in the kidney. The cysts can develop as early as your cat’s birth, and they typically grow with age. As time goes on, they may impair the function of the kidneys and even lead to kidney failure. While there is no cure for this condition, it can be managed with dietary restrictions, fluid therapy, and medicine.  Arthritis is also common in Scottish Folds due to their abnormal cartilage and bone formation

There are typically no discernable differences in personality between fixed male and female Scottish Folds. The most notable difference between males and females will be their size since males tend to be larger on average.


Scottish Folds are unique, adorable, and rare cats. If you are thinking of adding one to your home, you will need to make sure you find one from a reputable breeder and have the budget for such an uncommon yet coveted breed.
If you adopt a Scottish Fold, you’ll discover they’re remarkably affectionate, friendly, and docile. Whether you live alone, with a family, or with several other pets in the home, your Scottish Fold will be welcoming to everyone they cohabitate with. We hope this article has taught you everything you wanted to know about the Scottish Fold and wish you luck in adopting one.
Read Also:
Featured Image Credit: Alexander Sobol, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The unique folded ears of a Scottish Fold fit closely to their scull, giving them an owl-like appearance or as if they are donning a cap. They are loyal cats that bask in the company of their families. Intelligent and inquisitive, but a little less active than other breeds around the house. They get along well with children and other pets. The shorthair variety requires a weekly brush through and the longhair variety requires a weekly combing, other than that they do not require much grooming. Find out more about this breed and if the Scottish Fold is right for you and your family.
Playful
Medium-sized cat, 7-10 pounds
11-14+ years
Scottish Folds come in all colors and patterns of the Traditional and Pointed Divisions as well as long hair and short hair varieties and folded ear and straight ear varieties.
Scottish Folds come in all colors and patterns of the Traditional and Pointed Divisions as well as long hair and short hair varieties and folded ear and straight ear varieties.
Scottish Fold Longhair, 
Scottish Straight, 
Scottish Straight Longhair

With ears as their signature feature, giving them a look that resembles an owl, the Scottish Fold is a sweet, charming breed. A natural genetic mutation creates the unique folded ears, but their ears work just as well as any other cat’s.
Scottish Folds are intelligent, inquisitive, and are loyal to their family. Many do enjoy being held but often will follow the family around the house and never leave their side. Their tail should be handled gently and are known to develop stiffness that can cause pain if manhandled. They can be found in both the long and shorthair varieties..
The Scottish Fold occurred as a spontaneous mutation in farm cats in Scotland. All bona-fide Scottish trace their pedigree to Susie, the first fold-ear cat discovered by the founders of the breed, William and Mary Ross. The Breed was subsequently established by outcrosses to both pedigreed breeds and domestic cats in the United States. One word can describe the Scottish and that is ROUND in every sense of the word. Round head, body, eyes, and feet. The Scottish Fold is best known for its distinctive ears and large, round eyes, which give it a sweet, open expression. They retain a “kittenish” expression their entire life. The shorthair is medium in size with a plush, dense coat. The longhair has the same standard as the Shorthair Fold/Straight with the exception of the coat, which is semi-long and stands away from the body. However, the longhair gives the breed a somewhat softer overall look. The Scottish Straight is identical with the same sweet open expression but with straight ears.
Scottish Fold’s are good eaters and not as energetic as other breeds and therefore need to be engaged on a regular basis to be active. Take advantage of their love for human interaction and attention by keeping them engaged in interactive play to keep them fit and healthy. Challenge their brain by teaching them tricks and provide puzzle toys to test their intelligence.
They prefer the company of their humans, other cats, and cat-friendly dogs rather than being left alone for hours at a time. This breed gets along well with both children and other pets.
Want to connect with fellow cat lovers and those who love the same breed as you?TICA is a large resource made up of smaller regions and clubs around the world.Click here to find a club near you and contact information for your regional director and website.
Wherever you are, you’re in TICA’s world!®
The TICA website is the only place where you can find TICA member breeders who have signed the TICA Code of Ethics.
The unique folded ears of the Scottish Fold give it a look reminiscent of an owl. The tightly folded ears fit closely to the skull resulting in a cap-like appearance. Big, round shoe-button eyes open up the face in the rounded head. A sturdy body is covered with padding resulting in a solid feel to this medium-sized cat. The folded ear is a spontaneous mutation and comes from an incompletely dominant gene that results in both folded and straight-eared cats
The first Scottish Fold, found in 1961 by shepherd William Ross, was a barn cat named Susie who lived in Scotland. Folds have since developed into a round and beautiful family lap cat with wonderful temperaments. Susie was a solid white longhaired female and the cat fanciers bred her to various breeds like Persians, American Shorthairs, Exotic Shorthairs and even Burmese to achieve the round sweet look of the Scottish Folds we have grown to love today. Every Scottish Fold alive today can trace his or her ancestry back to the original Susie. Today TICA Scottish Fold breeders are allowed to use the British Shorthair and the American Shorthair in their breeding programs.
Scottish Folds are intelligent, inquisitive, and are loyal to their family. They tend not to hide around the house or be shy, but rather they will always be around, even following you from room to room. Some learn cute antics like how to open cabinet doors and take a look inside and they can even be trained to play fetch. Most love to drink from running water, and some eat and drink with their paws. Most folded-eared Folds sit up like prairie dogs to have a look around when they hear something. One of the cutest things is to see a Fold sitting up like a human which to many in the Fold world is referred to as “the Buddha sit”…they look like they need a remote control and a lounge chair. This breed gets along well with both children and, once properly introduced, other family pets as well. Scottish Folds today are carefully bred by experienced breeders to produce healthy happy kittens for you to enjoy for a lifetime.
The ears of a Scottish Fold do not make them more susceptible to ear infections than any other breed. They do, however have a form of degenerative joint disease caused by the same thing that causes the ear to fold. This can show up particularly in their tail, ankles, and feet. It can increase over time, but is recommended to always play gently with their tail. They should be taken to the veterinarian immediately to check for arthritis if any stiffness is noticed or if they appear to be in pain when their tail is manipulated. Folds also should be checked for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and polycystic kidney disease. It is important to always buy your Fold/Straight from a responsible breeder who does careful breed planning to help reduce joint issues and does veterinary screening and genetic testing to insure healthy, happy kittens.
Scottish Folds are both the long and shorthair varieties. They have dense, plush coats and lightly shed year round with heavier shedding periods during the spring and fall. Brush shorthaired Folds weekly to remove loose hair. Longhaired Folds may require a comb through several times a week, those with less undercoat may require less. Monthly bathing helps remove loose hair and keep their coats clean.
As with all cats, keep their nails trimmed, ears cleaned, and teeth brushed regularly with a vet-approved pet toothpaste and provide a nice tall scratching pole to help their natural scratching instinct.
Scottish Folds tend to be good eaters and are not as active as other breeds. Special care should be taken with their nutrition to prevent them from becoming overweight. As with all cats, Folds are obligate carnivores and require a good quality meat protein-rich diet.
As with all cats, it is important to give your cat fresh, clean water daily. Fresh, clean water is best, so cats don’t hesitate to drink. If you worry about your cat drinking enough water each day, here’s a tip from cat behaviorists – place the water bowl at least three feet away from any food. Cats’ noses are sensitive and an overwhelming smell of food may cause them to drink less. Folds love to drink from running water so consider a filtered drinking fountain to use in place of a water bowl.
Join the Cat Care Community!
Sign up now for exclusive monthly cat care tips delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your name and email below to stay updated with the best advice for your kitty companions!
"*" indicates required fields
--------------------------------------------------
Beyond their appearance, Scottish Folds are known for their calm and affectionate temperament, making them wonderful companions for families, singles, or seniors. They form strong bonds with their human families and are particularly fond of being involved in daily activities, often following their owners from room to room. Despite their love for companionship, they are not overly demanding of attention and are content to relax quietly nearby.
The Scottish Fold has gained significant popularity, particularly among celebrities, with one of its most famous admirers being singer Taylor Swift. Swift is known for her love of cats, and she has two Scottish Folds named Meredith Grey and Olivia Benson, who frequently appear in her social media posts and music videos. Their adorable looks and endearing personalities have helped elevate the breed’s profile, making Scottish Folds even more sought after as pets for cat lovers worldwide. Despite some concerns over the breed’s health, their unique appearance and loving nature continue to make them a favorite among cat enthusiasts.
Scottish Folds are banned in some countries, such as Scotland and parts of Europe, due to concerns over their health and welfare. The breed’s distinctive folded ears are caused by a genetic mutation that affects cartilage development, not just in the ears but throughout the body. This mutation can lead to a painful condition called osteochondrodysplasia, which causes joint abnormalities, stiffness, and arthritis. To prevent breeding practices that perpetuate these health issues, some regions have implemented bans or strict regulations on breeding Scottish Folds. Advocates argue that prioritizing the breed’s welfare over their unique appearance is essential for ethical pet ownership.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
The creation of many cat breeds often stems from a natural genetic mutation that appears unexpectedly in an otherwise ordinary cat, and the Scottish Fold is no exception. The breed’s origins trace back to 1961 in Scotland’s Tayside region, where a white barn cat named Susie, known for her unusual folded ears, caught the attention of a shepherd named William Ross. Susie, a skilled mouser, might have remained unnoticed if not for Ross’s keen interest in cats. When Susie had kittens with a local tomcat, Ross acquired one of her offspring, a female named Snooks. From there, Snooks had kittens of her own, and one of her male kittens was bred to a British Shorthair, laying the foundation for what was initially called “lop-eared cats,” later renamed Scottish Folds in honor of their country of origin and their distinctive folded ears.
As more breeders became involved, they discovered that the fold gene was dominant, meaning that kittens would inherit folded ears if at least one parent carried the gene. Additionally, Susie passed on a gene for long hair to her descendants, leading to the development of a longhaired variety, known as the Highland Fold in some associations. Scottish Folds were introduced to the United States in 1971, where they quickly gained popularity. By the mid-1970s, they were recognized by most North American cat associations. To maintain genetic diversity, Scottish Folds can be outcrossed to British Shorthairs and American Shorthairs, producing kittens with the breed’s signature rounded appearance and sweet disposition.
Ironically, despite their worldwide acclaim, Scottish Folds are not recognized as a breed in their native Scotland due to concerns about potential health issues associated with the folded ear trait. Critics have raised concerns about the possibility of ear infections, deafness, and a cartilage condition known as osteochondrodysplasia, which can affect mobility and joint health. Despite these challenges, Scottish Folds have become one of the most beloved breeds globally, cherished for their unique looks and affectionate nature.
Overall, the Scottish Fold is a medium-sized cat with a compact build.
Females tend to be about six to nine pounds in weight, while males tend to be about nine to 13 pounds. Many cats may be smaller or larger than average.
After their distinctive ears, the first thing you’ll notice about a Scottish Fold is their quirky habit of striking unusual poses. Whether they’re sprawled out on the floor like a little frog, sitting up like a meerkat on a nature documentary, or lying on their back with paws in the air, they certainly know how to capture attention. Despite their seemingly immobile ears, Scottish Folds are quite expressive with them and communicate effectively, often adding soft, chirpy comments when necessary.
This intelligent and moderately active breed enjoys engaging with teaser toys that test their agility and puzzle toys that challenge their problem-solving skills. Their favorite activities involve human interaction, and they thrive when involved in whatever their people are doing. Scottish Folds are affectionate cats who love attention and dislike being left alone for long periods. They’re best suited for households where someone is home during the day or where they have the companionship of another cat. When you return home, they’ll eagerly expect playtime or simply enjoy curling up with you for some lap time while you relax.
Scottish Folds are known for their adorable folded ears, but the genetic mutation responsible for this trait also predisposes them to several health conditions, particularly affecting their bones and joints. Key health issues include:
Osteochondrodysplasia (OCD): This is a hereditary disorder affecting cartilage and bone development. It can cause joint abnormalities, stiffness, pain, and severe arthritis, often manifesting as difficulty moving or lameness.
Degenerative Joint Disease: Scottish Folds are prone to developing arthritis at an early age, especially in the tail, ankles, and knees. This can lead to reduced mobility and chronic discomfort.
Ear Infections: The folded ears can make it harder to maintain ear hygiene, increasing the risk of infections and wax buildup.
Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HCM): Like many cat breeds, Scottish Folds can be susceptible to HCM, a condition where the heart muscle thickens, potentially leading to heart failure.
Obesity: Due to their often sedentary lifestyle, Scottish Folds are at risk of becoming overweight, which can exacerbate joint issues and lead to other health complications.
To maintain the health and appearance of a Scottish Fold, brush their coat weekly to remove dead hair and evenly distribute natural skin oils. Longhaired Folds may require grooming a couple of times a week to prevent tangling. Regular dental care is important to prevent periodontal disease; daily brushing is ideal, but brushing once a week is still beneficial. Trim their nails every couple of weeks, and gently wipe the corners of their eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate section of the cloth for each eye to avoid spreading infection. Check their ears weekly, especially if they are tightly folded, and clean them with a cotton ball or soft cloth dampened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water if they appear dirty. Avoid cotton swabs, as they can harm the ear’s interior.
Keep the litter box impeccably clean, as cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene, and a tidy box helps maintain their coat’s cleanliness. It’s recommended to keep Scottish Folds as indoor-only cats to protect them from outdoor dangers such as diseases, attacks from dogs or coyotes, and accidents like being hit by a car. Additionally, outdoor Folds are at risk of being stolen due to their status.
The Scottish Fold is often compared to an owl due to the way its small ears fit snugly over its rounded head. The ears can have varying folds, from a single fold that bends forward about halfway up the ear, to a tighter double fold, and the highly desired triple fold, which lies flat against the head, particularly in show cats. Kittens are born with straight ears, which typically begin to fold around three weeks of age. Their wide, expressive eyes give them a sweet, gentle look. The breed has a medium-sized, rounded body and a medium to long tail, sometimes with a rounded tip.
Scottish Folds come in two coat types: shorthaired and longhaired. Shorthaired Folds have a dense, plush coat with a soft texture, while longhaired Folds feature medium to long fur with additional features like britches (longer fur on the upper thighs), toe tufts, a plumed tail, and ear tufts, often accompanied by a ruff around the neck. This breed is available in a variety of colors and patterns, including solid, tabby, tabby and white, bicolor, and particolor. The eye color typically correlates with the coat color, with white and bicolor cats often having blue eyes or even odd eyes, where each eye is a different color.
The Scottish Fold is a friendly and laidback breed, making the brreed an excellent choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. They enjoy the attention they receive from children who treat them with kindness and respect, and they are playful and quick to learn tricks. Their gentle nature also allows them to coexist peacefully with cat-friendly dogs. As with any new pet introduction, it’s important to introduce them gradually and in a controlled environment to ensure they form positive relationships.
It may be difficult to find rescue organizations dedicated to this breed due to the breed’s rarity. However, you can sometimes find these unique cats in shelters. Adopting from a rescue not only gives a cat a new beginning but often comes with the added benefit of supporting a responsible breeding practice, as rescue organizations prioritize the health and well-being of the animals.
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
