LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Planning on adopting a Scottish Deerhound and want to know if Scottish Deerhounds are get along with cats?
Find out all about Scottish Deerhound cat friendliness and how to make your Scottish Deerhound get along better with kittens on this page.



A common error a lot of people make is believing that all pet dogs dislike felines and all felines hate canines. This isn’t true and there are lots of canine breeds that get along with cats. Canines that aren’t naturally feline friendly can likewise be trained to be more safe around felines.
From the opinion of professional Scottish Deerhound dog experts, Scottish Deerhound dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of how friendly they are with cats.



Regardless of the misconception, a great deal of pet dogs and cats can cohabit peacefully. Follow these simple to follow steps to understand how to best introduce your Scottish Deerhound with a feline.


Not all Scottish Deerhounds hate felines, some get along with them. When Scottish Deerhounds do hate felines, of the most common factor is quite simple. Like all canines, Scottish Deerhounds still hold onto some of the hunting behavioral instincts that they were originally reproduced for. This is why Scottish Deerhounds like chasing all moving objects, whether it’s a toy, rodent, or a feline.
Because a lot of felines will run away when they encounter, it’s easy to see why they are understood for not being friendly with each other. Scottish Deerhounds in fact delight in chasing felines not since they hate them, however mainly since a fast running animal sets off a strong, natural impulse to chase after overcomes any training or socialisation.


Teaching your Scottish Deerhound to quit going after cats requires time, practice and consistency, but the benefit of not needing to stress over them continuously chasing after is well worth it. Here are the steps of how to stop your Scottish Deerhound from chasing felines.


The very best technique to guarantee your Scottish Deerhound would never kill a feline is to raise them with felines when they’re a young puppy prior to 3 months old. At this age, they will usually wish to play with the cats and won’t see them as prey.
If your Scottish Deerhound has actually killed a cat in the past, its ideal if you keep them in an open, fenced off space. When taking them for strolls try to avoid going after sunset and prior to dawn since that’s when cats are most active and likely to be wandering the streets.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Kim Christensen, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 14, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
With looks like a rough-coated Greyhound, the Scottish Deerhound is a large and graceful coursing hound that was developed from the sighthound. As the name suggests, Deerhounds were bred to stalk and run down giant wild red deer.
These dogs are more substantial than Greyhounds, however, giving them the strength to take on massive bucks with sharp antlers. Now, these dogs are primarily kept as show dogs, canine competitors, and family companions. But like sighthounds and other hunting breeds, Deerhounds have specific needs that owners must be prepared for.
Height:
28–32 inches
Weight:
75–110 pounds
Lifespan:
8–11 years
Colors:
Blue-gray, brindle, gray, gray brindle, black, black brindle, blue
Suitable for:
Active families, attentive owners, experienced owners
Temperament:
Energetic, needy, sensitive
Known as the “Royal Dog of Scotland,” the Scottish Deerhound is a descendant of an old Gaelic hound. They are closely related to the Irish Wolfhound, sharing a common ancestry. In fact, Scottish Deerhounds were one of the foundation breeds that contributed to the modern Irish Wolfhound.
Deerhounds were developed to course and stalk red deer in the 19th century. Once modern rifles came around, hunters preferred slower tracking dogs over the fast, distance-bred Deerhound. Deerhounds were trained to hunt deer as singles or a pair, running them down with sheer speed. After their decline in hunting, they became sporting animals for nobility and eventually show dogs.

Scottish Deerhounds are valued for their hunting ability, even if they’re no longer used to course deer, and they’re a rare breed in North America and their native Scotland. One of the reasons they’re rare in the US is that hunting deer with dogs is not allowed. If you want a Scottish Deerhound, you may need to wait for an available litter from one of the few reputable breeders.
Though also rare, Scottish Deerhounds may appear in rescues and shelters from owners unprepared for their energy needs, companionship needs, or size. There are some breed-specific rescues that work with Deerhounds and Deerhound mixes, but you will need to do your research to find one.
If you find a puppy, make sure to devote a lot of time to training and socialization. Deerhounds do well with play companions and large, secure play areas with sturdy fences. Their energy needs can be quite demanding as puppies, so you will need to set aside time for vigorous exercise sessions.
Scottish Deerhounds have a history steeped in myth and legend. The Hilton of Cadboll Stone, which dates back about 1200 years, depicts deer chased by two large dogs and horsemen, but there’s no definitive genetic link between these dog types and the modern Deerhound.
The Scottish Deerhound became officially known in relation to the English regional greyhounds in the early 19th century. The Deerhound is believed to be connected to Gaelic hounds and shares ancestry with the Irish Wolfhound.
These dogs were valuable for coursing deer alongside mounted hunters, either on their own or in pairs, and running them down. But as the clan systems declined in Scotland, they became sporting animals for nobility and some common folk. They were used for large and small game, as well as poaching in some instances, but tracking dogs became preferred as large Scottish estates were divided into smaller estates.

Scottish Deerhounds are unique in that they love to be lazy, but they’re at attention if something catches their eye. If they spot something worth chasing, they will enter into a single-minded pursuit until they succeed. Obedience lessons are crucial to not only manage their energy levels and absentmindedness but also prevent problem behaviors related to separation anxiety and boredom. These dogs are very sensitive and require one family, but they are often friendly around new people.
Scottish Deerhounds can be a good choice for families with children. However, given their large size and sensitive nature, it’s important to teach both dog and child to interact appropriately. Accidents can happen if you leave a large dog with a young child unsupervised. Don’t allow your child to ride the Deerhound, tug on their ears or tail, or rough play with them, as that can cause the dog to become defensive.
Deerhounds were bred to course alongside other dogs and generally get along well with other medium or large breeds. However, they are coursing hounds with a high prey drive. Pairing them with cats or small dogs can lead to chase behaviors that are dangerous for the smaller animals. You should never leave a small pet within access of a Deerhound.

Scottish Deerhounds are large, sensitive dogs with very specific needs. Here’s everything you need to know about welcoming one into your family.
Scottish Deerhounds need a high-quality commercial dog food that meets their energy needs at different life stages and is suitable for common breed health conditions. These dogs may be prone to becoming overweight, and when combined with long and graceful limbs, this can lead to problems with their joints and back. Obesity also contributes to health problems like heart disease and diabetes. Make sure to check with your vet about your dog’s diet and body condition.
Scottish Deerhounds do best with a canine companion to learn with. You should also have a large, fenced-in yard or suitable area for off-leash play and exercise. These dogs have a high prey drive and desire to chase, so they should never be trusted without a leash in an open area. Both adults and puppies need to have plenty of exercise each day, including a lot of running. Otherwise, they may develop destructive behaviors due to boredom.
Deerhound puppies can be challenging to raise. They require a lot of human companionship and a gentle touch. They shouldn’t be left in a crate for hours each day without some exercise and interaction. Though the Deerhound likes to make their owner happy, they require a reason to perform and listen. If you’re not experienced at training dogs, you may want to invest in professional obedience training.
Though they have a thick, wiry coat, Scottish Deerhounds are very easy to care for. They need a good brushing at least once a week and nail trims every few weeks. You may need to use a slicker brush or comb to remove loose hair and keep their coats shiny and healthy. Unless your dog spends a lot of time outside, occasional baths are enough to keep odors at bay.
Scottish Deerhounds are prone to some genetic health problems like osteosarcoma, dilated cardiomyopathy, cystinuria, slow drug metabolism, delayed bleeding, hyperthermia, and bloat. Fortunately, many of these problems can be prevented with proper care and proactive measures.
There’s a considerable difference in the size of the male and female Deerhound, which can make a difference in your food budget and costs for weight-based medications. Otherwise, there is little difference in temperament or health between them, especially if you intend to spay or neuter. This prevents some problem behaviors like vocalization and roaming to find a mate. It’s also crucial for preventing some reproductive cancers or problems in both males and females.

At the height of their popularity, the Scottish Deerhound was so prized that offering exclusive ownership and strict breeding privileges was a concern for breed associations. With the gene pool limited, Scottish Deerhounds nearly went extinct.
In October 1994, the AKC held the inaugural National Lure Coursing Championship in NJ. The winner was a 14-month-old Scottish Deerhound, who’s now the 1994 National Lure Coursing Champion Chartwell Silver Run of Vale Vue, owned by Ellen Bonacarti and Norma Sellars.
The Scottish Deerhound’s history is murky, but some versions of the breed can be traced back to the third century. Historians have identified the breed as Deerhounds in the 16th and 17th centuries, but it’s possible that they existed before Scottish people.

Scottish Deerhounds are regal, majestic dogs with the speed and size to take on wild red deer. While they’re mostly left to shows and homes in the modern day, they still retain some of their instinct to hunt and course. These dogs make wonderful, attached companions for the right owner, but it’s crucial to do your research and prepare for their unique needs for a happy and healthy pup.
Featured Image Credit: Kim Christensen, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Nicole has loved animals of all sizes her whole life so it's no wonder she has dedicated her career to helping them through what she loves best: learning, writing, and sharing knowledge with others. She’s the proud mom of two dogs, a cat, and a human. With a degree in Education and 15+ years of writing experience, Nicole wants to help pet parents and pets around the planet to live happy, safe, and healthy lives.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Collection of all the general dog breed info about Scottish Deerhound so you can get to know the breed more.
Due to its popularity, inbreeding may occur. A new study shows that inbreeding contributes to the incidence of disease and health problems.
The Scottish Deerhound ranks average in the intelligence ranking of dogs.
Some dogs handle moderate punishment very well, while others crumble apart at a dirty look. This breed is not affected emotionally by moderate punishment.
Top reasons for barking: protection, alarm, fear, boredom, attention-seeking, greeting, separation anxiety, compulsive barking.
Low  🔽
Above 400 PSI  🔼
The Scottish Deerhound PSI bite should be respected, and appropriate precautions should be taken when interacting with these dogs. The PSI of a Scottish Deerhound bite is high, making them one of the strongest breeds in terms of bite force.
They are very protective of themselves and their families, therefore a dog bite from them could be exceptionally dangerous with their PSI being above 400.
To ensure a well-behaved and controlled dog, it's important to learn how to train a Scottish Deerhound puppy not to bite from an early age. It is important that they’re trained to be around others safely.
Do Scottish Deerhound dogs need a lot of exercises?
If you notice any weight gain, consult your veterinarian and make a diet plan. Reduce unhealthy food and snacks, and measure the Scottish Deerhound weight regularly.
Ears and eyes should be cleaned regularly to avoid infections. Scottish Deerhound is a good choice if you don't have the time, skill, or money to take care of a high-maintenance dog.
If you notice any change in your dog's drooling habit, you should contact a vet as soon as possible.
Medium  ⏺
For example, short-haired dog breeds can go a very long time in between baths. These short-haired breeds shed regularly and that shedding works to naturally remove excess dirt and oil. So unless your weenie dog got into the garbage can, you can probably hold off on a bath for a while.
Not really This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for service purposes.
This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for service purposes.
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for service purposes.
Not really This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Not really They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for detection purposes.
They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Not really This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
The Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
Not really Scottish Deerhound breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Scottish Deerhound breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Not really A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Scottish Deerhound is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Not really In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
60-64 days
During this time the females start to attract males. You can notice by swelling vulva and bloody discharge.
The second part is the Estrus when the female is receptive for the male. It lasts for about 3 to 11 days.
The sign of the proestrus part is the soft and enlarged vulva. The discharge decreases and lightens in color.
The third part is the Diestrus. Normally, it occurs around day 14. In this period the female’s discharge changes for vivid red and coming to its end. The vulva returns to average, and she will no longer permit mating.
The fourth part called the Anestrus. The time frame between heat periods normally lasts about six months.
Once a year.
The origins of the Scottish Deerhound take us to the Scottish Highlands. Because of the fact, that the breed is a very old one, experts cannot separate the breed’s true origins from the legends and myths that surrounds the dogs. Over the centuries the Scottish Deerhound was known as Scottish Greyhound, Highland Deerhounds, Rough Greyhounds, or as Irish Wolfdogs. Historical evidence suggests that large deerstalking hounds were existing in Scotland before the Scots got there in the 9th century. During that time, clan chieftains worked with packs of large, shaggy hounds to bring down wolves and 400 pounders wild red deer with dangerous antlers. At that time, these dogs were highly admired for their courage, strength, and gentle dignity.
The Scottish Deerhound got definitely identifiable as early as the 16-17th centuries. A nobleman condemned to death could purchase his life with a gift of Deerhounds. Consequently, the Deerhound’s esteem and worth had skyrocketed. No one with a lower rank than an Earl could claim the ownership of a Scottish Deerhound, which was commonly portrayed as the official Royal Dog of Scotland. This exclusivity led to many regulations and imposed breeding privileges. Eventually, the breed got endangered because of these rigorous breeding policies. The Scottish Deerhound suffered under its restricted ownership, so, consequently, many times the breed was close to extinction. Most nearly when the clan political system collapsed in Scotland in 1745. The breed was in dire straits by 1769. Many efforts were made in order to restore this majestic breed to its initial glory in the 1820s by Duncan and Archibald McNeill. Fortunately, their well-planned and detailed breeding program succeeded, and the breed got saved from the brink of extinction.
The Scottish Deerhound got introduced to the United States in the late 1800s, and in 1886, the first specimen of the breed, called Bonnie Robin got registered by the AKC (American Kennel Club). The First World War had considerably negative effects on the breed when many of the large estates in England and in Scotland were broken up and often redistributed. So much, that the breed’s numbers declined and just a few selected owners could enjoy the breed once again.
Nowadays, the Scottish Deerhound is still remained an unknown breed, appreciated mostly in its homeland, Britain, because of its royal Scottish heritage. However, the dog’s high valuation is not a result of their rarity, so much as the fact that the breed possesses pre-eminent hunting capabilities. Moreover, for centuries the Deerhounds have always hunted in packs and with their owners and guards of Highland Chieftains, thus the breed has an insatiable desire for human companionship, which makes the dogs great family pets as well. Surprisingly, even though, though, the description of this breed is, for the most part, legendary, it is nonetheless a well-established fact that in size, type, and character, the Scottish Deerhound had stood still as time flew by, and remained authentic to its true characteristics.
Sep 5, 2023, 2:19:12 PM:

Mar 9, 2022, 10:17:36 AM:
--------------------------------------------------
Also known as: Deerhound, Highland DeerhoundOrigin: ScotlandPurpose: Hunting deer, coursing
Interaction patterns with humans and other animals
Overall care requirements and upkeep needs
Overall health score based on common issues and life expectancy
Overall ability to adapt to different environments and situations
This breed is moderately affectionate and forms strong bonds with their family
Shows very high energy levels and requires appropriate exercise
Displays moderately high intelligence and learning capability
moderately outgoing and welcoming towards people and other animals
Shows somewhat protective instincts towards family and territory
Appropriateness for first-time dog owners
Overall ease of training and learning capability
Suitability: Low. Requires: Multiple daily walks, Access to dog parks, Regular outdoor activities
Suitability: High. Ideal features include: Fenced yard, Space for indoor play, Access to outdoor activities
Tolerates cold weather better than heat due to thick coat. Requires shade and hydration in hot climates.
Generally good with children, but supervision recommended due to size and energy.
Recommendations:
May be reserved initially, warms up with time.
Can be social with proper introduction and early socialization.
Best Practices:
Early socialization required, may chase due to prey drive.
The Scottish Deerhound, also known as the Deerhound or Highland Deerhound, is a majestic and ancient breed with a rich history rooted in the Scottish Highlands. Known for their grace, speed, and gentle demeanor, these dogs are a unique blend of nobility and athleticism. If you're considering adding a Scottish Deerhound to your family, this guide will provide you with everything you need to know about this remarkable breed.
The Scottish Deerhound has a storied past, dating back to a time when they were the prized companions of Scottish nobility. Bred primarily for hunting deer and coursing, these dogs were valued for their ability to bring down large game with their speed and strength. Their origins can be traced back to the 16th century, and they were often referred to as the "Royal Dog of Scotland."
The Scottish Deerhound is a large, athletic dog with a wiry, shaggy coat that gives them a rugged, yet elegant appearance. Their long legs and deep chest are built for speed, making them one of the fastest dog breeds in the world.
The Scottish Deerhound is known for its gentle and affectionate nature. Despite their size and hunting background, they are incredibly calm and well-mannered indoors. They are loyal and form strong bonds with their families, often becoming deeply attached to their human companions.
Tip: Early socialization is key to ensuring your Deerhound gets along well with other pets and people. Expose them to a variety of experiences, environments, and individuals to help them develop into well-rounded adults.
Scottish Deerhounds are high-energy dogs that require plenty of exercise to stay happy and healthy. They thrive in environments where they can run freely, so a large, securely fenced yard is ideal. Regular long walks and opportunities to run are essential to meet their exercise needs.
Tip: If you live in an apartment, be prepared to dedicate significant time to outdoor activities. Deerhounds are not well-suited to small living spaces without ample exercise opportunities.
The Deerhound's rough, wiry coat requires regular maintenance to keep it in good condition. Brushing a few times a week will help prevent matting and remove loose hair. Bathing should be done every 6-8 weeks, or as needed.
Tip: Pay special attention to their ears and nails. Regular ear cleaning and nail trimming are important parts of their grooming routine.
Scottish Deerhounds are intelligent but can be independent thinkers, which can make training a bit challenging. They respond best to positive reinforcement techniques, such as treats and praise. Consistency and patience are key when training a Deerhound.
Tip: Start training early and keep sessions short and engaging. Deerhounds can be sensitive, so avoid harsh methods.
Scottish Deerhounds are moderately adaptable but do best in homes with plenty of space to roam. They are not well-suited to apartment living unless their exercise needs are consistently met. They are sensitive to extreme temperatures, so they should be kept indoors during very hot or cold weather.
Tip: If you live in a hot climate, ensure your Deerhound has access to shade and plenty of water during outdoor activities.
Tip: Regular veterinary check-ups and a healthy diet can help manage and prevent some health issues. Be vigilant for signs of illness, such as lethargy, lameness, or changes in appetite.
Owning a Scottish Deerhound is a significant financial commitment. In addition to the initial purchase price, you'll need to budget for food, grooming, veterinary care, and other essentials.
Tip: Consider pet insurance to help cover unexpected medical expenses. It can provide peace of mind and financial security.
The Scottish Deerhound is a wonderful companion for the right family. They are best suited to active households with plenty of space and time to dedicate to their exercise and grooming needs. If you're considering a Deerhound, here are some final tips:
The Scottish Deerhound is a noble and loving breed that can bring immense joy to the right home. With proper care and attention, they will be a loyal and cherished member of your family for years to come.
Your experience with Scottish Deerhound could help others make informed decisions. Join our community to share your insights!
Unable to load comments. Please try again later.
--------------------------------------------------
Hounds
38-50 kg
75-82 cm
8-11 years
This dog was once only deemed worthy for those of high social class, but happily, these days it’s now a companion dog to many. There is much to know and understand about this noble and gentle giant.
Instantly recognisable and a popular breed despite its gangly size, read on for more information to help you decide whether this is the right dog breed for you!
This breed unsurprising originates from Scotland, as its name suggests. Their history dates back to the 16th century, and although their ancestry is unclear, they are said to have been originally bred to hunt deer, wolves, and later stags for their owners in the Scottish highlands.
This breed was seen as important to the people of that time and in fact, they were seen as the Royal dog of Scotland.
The breed nearly became extinct in 1769, but fortunately, in 1820, breeders strived to recover the breed. And although they are still seen as a rare breed, the noble Scottish Deerhound has managed to spread around the world.
This breed is categorised as purebred dogs and was officially recognised by the American Kennel Club in 1886. It has its breed club and is registered with the Scottish Deerhound Club, among other clubs and registries specific to designer breeds.
They have also been called Irish Wolfdogs, Scottish Greyhounds, Rough Greyhounds, or Highland Deerhounds.
Their size alone might make it evident that this dog is not suited for apartment living. They need lots of living space; a backyard would be perfect for them to roam around.
Their size may make them seem aggressive, but the Scottish Deerhound is not. In fact, it won’t make a good guard dog as it’s too friendly to strangers to scare anyone away. So if you are looking for a large dog for protection, you might not want to choose this one.
They are a friendly breed and get along with children of all ages, making them perfect for large families looking for a playmate for their human family members.
The Scottish Deerhound will fit perfectly with your lifestyle if you are an active individual but are also quite lazy and laid back, which is a healthy balance for everyone.
The Scottish Deerhound can be identified as a tall dog. They have a wiry coat and have a bit of a fringe on the back of their legs.
Their harsh coat is usually a dark blue-grey mix but can also come in dark grey, light grey, brindle, red fawn, yellow or sandy red.
They are heavy shedders and shed throughout the year, so you can expect dog hair to be all over the place. This means they aren’t hypoallergenic and are therefore unsuitable for people allergic to dog dander.
They must be brushed at least once or twice weekly to detangle the hair and distribute skin oils evenly. The best way to do this is to brush in the direction the hair grows with a specific metal comb known as a greyhound comb.
Bathing should only be done when necessary to get rid of doggy odour. Clipping their nails, brushing their teeth and plucking the hairs from their ears should also be added to their grooming routine.
This breed doesn’t require a lengthy grooming routine but if these steps are something you feel is not something you can handle, mainly because they are large dogs, you can take them to a professional groomer. A pampered pooch will always be a happy pooch!
This giant breed may look tough, but it isn’t an aggressive breed. Barking is not something they are known for, and they will only bark when necessary.
The only times Scottish Deerhounds bark is if they feel threatened or sense danger. They aren’t wary of strangers and are friendly towards other dogs and cats. They are more likely to bark at small dogs and animals because of the inherited high prey drive.
Socialise your Deerhound puppies so that they are comfortable in different types of environments as well as around other animals and children.
The average weight of the male Scottish Deerhound is between 38 kg – 50 kg, with an average size between 75 cm – 82 cm.
The average weight of the female Scottish Deerhound is between 34 kg – 43 kg, with an average size between 71 cm – 76 cm.
If you are a novice dog owner considering getting this breed, you’ll be happy to know that they are easy to train. They are, however, lazy dogs and more likely to take training seriously if they know they are getting something out of it. This is why positive reinforcement training works well for Deerhounds.
This breed needs to be socialised at an early age as their prey drive could cause issues as they grow. Get your pup into a puppy kindergarten class to familiarise them with other dogs, people, and environments.
These giant breeds are commonly used as show dogs because of their unique appearance and rareness, as well as in dog sports, so training them for this could be fun.
They love to please their pet parents and want to excel in their tasks seeing that they are inherently working dogs.
Being named the “Noble Scottish Deerhound” is one that so aptly describes this breed. They make great four-legged friends to their human owners and have mainly positive personality traits.
These dogs are friendly towards everyone and are likelier to show strangers this than be wary of them. They engage well with children of all ages despite being large and are fun-loving playmates. They are described as extremely loyal, devoted, and gentle, which are beautiful ways to describe this gentle giant.
On the other hand, these dogs can be lazy and have a bit of an – if I do this, what would I get out of it – attitude, which may be a challenge. However, their want to please their owner can overshadow this.
The Scottish Deerhound temperament is going to be based on their living environment. They need to be socialised early, given obedience training and be well looked after to ensure that you have a happy and healthy dog and will be a pleasure to be around.
Reputable breeders will inform you beforehand that your pup may be suffering from genetic health problems and how to look after them as they do medical checks on their breeding dogs.
Take your dog for monthly check-ups at the vet throughout your dog’s life to ensure that they are healthy.
These are the most common health issues your Scottish Deerhound may face:
The average life expectancy of this breed is 8 – 11 years.
This is a large dog, and because food is measured based on how much your dog weighs and its activity level, it eats more than most dogs.
They need 3 – 4 cups of dry high-quality dog food and should be fed this twice a day. For every stage of your canines life, they are going to require different amounts and kinds of food.
For a healthier dog, ensure it gets the correct balance of nutrients in its diet so that they develop properly. Monitor your dog’s weight and eating habits as they are prone to gaining weight.
There is a lot to think about when purchasing a dog. The price could be a significant deciding factor. Buying a Scottish Deerhound can cost between $1500 – $3500.
This breed interacts well with children of all ages. The dog and the child must understand how to interact first, mainly because this is a large breed that may not always be aware of its size. Early socialisation will help your dog with this.
These two dog breeds are not the same. They may look similar and come from neighbouring countries, but they are two distinct breeds.
This breed isn’t aggressive and can get along well with cats. However, they have a high prey drive, leading to chasing smaller animals like cats. This can be stopped through proper training and socialisation.
Welcome to Pets Online, a team of pet parents, animal lovers and veterinarians devoted to providing you with everything you need to know about pets.
© PetsOnline. All Rights Reserved 2025.
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
--------------------------------------------------
