Cat Breeds
Nicknamed “The cat in sheep's clothing,” the Selkirk Rex is an adorable, woolly-haired feline with a unique personality. With a bit of an independent streak, this might not the best breed for someone who's looking for a traditional lap cat; even so, the Selkirk Rex generally has a calm demeanor and does enjoy human companionship.
Friendly and inquisitive, these cats enjoy napping and once they've completed their kitten years, they have a good reputation for keeping out of trouble. At the same time, they exhibit a wonderfully playful side, and will happily entertain you with their silly antics.
Despite their disdain for long cuddling sessions, Selkirk Rex cats don't like to be left alone for long periods of time. They prefer to spend their time in the company of others, whether snuggling up to watch TV with their human companions or napping alongside another cat.
It’s well worth mentioning that not all members of the Selkirk Rex breed have the same personality traits. Some breeders have outcrossed with Persians, Exotics, British Shorthairs, and American Shorthairs, resulting in cats with adorable curly coats and extremely docile personalities.
Selkirk Rex cats do not have any special nutritional needs, however you might want to look for a food that includes higher levels of Omega fatty acids to support healthy skin and keep their coat looking its best.
Since these cats can be prone to obesity, it's important to look for a brand that offers high protein and low carbohydrates.
The Selkirk Rex cat has a completely unique coat with lots of curls and a soft, thick texture. This extra-special coat calls for a bit of care, but less than you might imagine. You’ll want to check for tangles and comb them to prevent painful mats from forming; at the same time, too much brushing and combing can give the cat’s fur a wavy appearance rather than allowing the curls to stand out.
Consider brushing your cat's teeth and think about keeping their toenails trimmed. Regular at-home dental care can help prevent periodontal disease and frequent nail trimming can help prevent damage to your furniture, skin, and clothing.
Some – but not all – Selkirk Rex cats produce excess body oil and need occasional bathing. If your cat is among those that requires a bath now and then, be sure to use gentle cat shampoo and allow them to slowly air dry. Using any type of hair dryer might burn the cat's delicate skin. In addition, it can cause the hair to puff up and give your cat the appearance of a poodle.
Selkirk Rex cats love to play, particularly when they have the opportunity to interact with their humans or feline friends. These kitties have a strong appreciation for jumping and climbing as well; you'll want to offer a tall cat tower and perhaps a window seat that provides a view of the great outdoors. In addition, your cat will appreciate a few scratching posts, puzzle toys that stimulate curiosity, and other playthings including empty boxes and crinkly paper bags.
You won't have to encourage the Selkirk Rex to play during the cat's younger years; however, they might need some encouragement as they get older and more prone to obesity.
Selkirk Rex cats are generally healthy. To date, there are no known genetic issues that affect the breed. Some breeders do screen for potential problems including polycystic kidney disease and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
The Selkirk Rex cat breed got its start with a kitten that was born in Montana in 1987. This curly haired kitten had a rescued mother of unknown origin, and ultimately found a home with a cat breeder named Jeri Newman. Newman named the cat Miss DePesto after a character played by actress Allyce Beasley.
When Miss DePesto reached adulthood, she was bred with a black Persian male named PhotoFinish of Deekay. The resulting litter contained three straight haired kittens and three curly haired kittens, showing that an autosomally dominant gene was responsible for the curly coat.
Once established, the breed was named after Newman's stepfather, Selkirk. Over time, breeders out crossed with American Shorthairs, Himalayans, Persians, British Shorthairs, and exotic Shorthairs. At present, only The International Cat Association (TICA) accepts the American Shorthair as an acceptable outcross.
TICA was first to recognize the Selkirk Rex cat breed, granting acceptance in 1992. The American Cat Fanciers Association granted its recognition in 1998, and the Cat Fanciers Association followed suit in 2000. Today, the Selkirk Rex is accepted by cat registries worldwide.
The Selkirk Rex has a full coat and a large body, two features that distinguish it from other Rex breeds including the Devon Rex and Cornish Rex.
The Selkirk Rex is the only cat breed to be named after a person.
Some Selkirk Rex cats are so curly, the breed has been given the nickname "Poodle cat."
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Selkirk Rex, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Selkirk Rex or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Selkirk Rex, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Selkirk Rex cats cost between $500- $800.
Selkirk Rex cats tend to be large in size. A fully grown Selkirk Rex cat might weigh between 7-12 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 9"- 11" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Selkirk Rex is 14-15 years.
Selkirk Rex are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
I love my sheep cat she’s very affectionate
I am interested in a short curly haired kitten as soon as possible.  Can’t Waite to hear from you.
Hello Krystal, I’d recommend looking up “Rex kittens near me” or “Rex kittens + (your city or area)” to find local breeders. Good luck!
The Selkirk Rex is a short-haired breed. The Selkirk Rex Longhair, is the specific breed name for any Selkirk with a long coat. You can get both breeds in a litter.  We breeders do not call it a “poodle cat.” That gives the impression that it’s hypoallergenic which it most definitely is not.  We do, however, call it “a cat in sheep’s clothing” as often the texture of a homozygous Selkirk Rex feels like lambs wool.
I would like to be contacted by a reputable breeder of a Selkirk Rex Cat. The curlier the better.. Thank you
I am interested in a female Selkirk in the near future. Our present cat is failing from old age. We plan to have 2 cats. We will get a 7 toed female also. We prefer an older one, not a kitten.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Sue Thatcher, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 29, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Selkirk Rex is one of the only four cat breeds with wavy fur, the others being the Cornish Rex, Devon Rex, and LaPerm. Sweet, loyal, and terribly cute, the Selkirk Rex is a great fit for any person, including those who consider themselves “dog people.”
The Selkirk is a recent breed, tracing its roots back to 1987 when a Montana breeder, Jeri Newman, spotted a curly-haired kitten at a shelter and adopted it. She then bred the curly kitty with a Persian male, producing a litter consisting of three straight-haired kittens and three curly-haired ones.
This indicated that the curly hair gene is autosomal dominant, meaning that one parent must possess it for some of their offspring to express it.
Height
9–11 inches
Weight
6–16 pounds
Lifespan
10–15 years
Colors
White, Black, Lavender, Red, Cream, Chocolate
Suitable for
Active families, apartments and condos, families with more than one cat, seniors, single people
Temperament
Affectionate, active, independent, patient, playful, quiet, social
The International Cat Association (TICA) was the first to accept the Selkirk Rex as a distinct breed in 1992. The American Cat Fanciers’ Association (ACFA) officially accepted it in 1998.
The Selkirk Rex is a muscular, medium-sized cat that can weigh up to 16 pounds, but the females are smaller. This cat has a round head, adorable round eyes, and comes in a wide variety of colors and patterns. Additionally, their curly coats can be either short or long.
A common misconception is that the Selkirk Rex’s coat is hypoallergenic due to its coat texture. However, that is not true. Allergies result from dander and not a particular coat type.
This breed is a good fit for people who will give them attention, as their personality and coat type requires a lot of care.
The Selkirk Rex is a rare breed, however, a breeder may not be too hard to find if you are willing to travel to get one. If you do find a Selkirk Rex breeder, you may even be put on a waiting list. So make sure to reach out to the breeder before you make the trip to see if they have cats available immediately.
It is important to do your research to make sure the breeder is reputable. A reputable breeder can answer any questions you may have and will be extremely knowledgeable about the breed. They should also be able to provide a medical history for the kitten and the kitten’s bloodline. Avoid kitten mills that sell these kittens for cheap. You can usually tell because they can’t provide much information about the breed and don’t have medical records, as they are only looking to make money and may not produce healthy kittens.
The Selkirk Rex is loving, patient, and tolerant. They enjoy playing and are not too demanding. Additionally, they are sweet and attentive and get along just fine with both children and other pets.
Interestingly, this cat has a clownish side to it and will entertain you occasionally. But they would love nothing better than to sit on your lap and talk to you quietly. They are not loud cats.
Despite being laid back, they become sad when ignored frequently or left alone for extended periods. This means that they are not a good fit for single people who are rarely at home.
The Selkirk is also one intelligent cat. They like learning new things and will even open drawers to look for their favorite toy. As such, make sure that you invest in several toys to stimulate them mentally.
The Selkirk Rex’s sweet disposition makes them ideal pets for all types of families, even those with children. However, you must teach the kids how to handle this kitty properly to avoid injuries on both ends.
The Selkirk Rex does get along with other pets. However, early socialization is necessary, as it allows the cat to be comfortable around others.
The Selkirk Rex is a relatively large cat; therefore, it is important to control their portions accordingly to avoid overfeeding them. Keeping them lean allows you to keep health issues such as obesity, diabetes, and arthritis at bay, especially considering that these are not overactive cats. It will also allow you to prevent the onset of hip dysplasia and heart disease, which are both conditions that this breed is predisposed to.
You should only get high-quality cat food for your Selkirk to ensure that they are getting proper nutrition from their diet. Therefore, avoid cheap commercial foods. This is not to say that all expensive foods are of high quality. Do your homework to identify the good brands.
The portion sizes, as well as nutritional needs, will vary between cats, depending on factors such as age, activity level, and metabolism. You might want to consult your vet if you are not sure about how much food your pet needs.
The Selkirk, like any other cat, will only play when it wants to. Moreover, thanks to their laid-back attitude, they are not particularly overzealous. This means that you will have to be creative to get them to burn some calories.
Fortunately, toys such as plastic balls, feather teasers, felt mice, and interactive games will keep the cat engaged. Consider getting a cat tower, too, to help them practice their jumps, as well as have a perch when they need some space.
Selkirks are highly intelligent, which allows them to learn tricks easily. However, your Selkirk Rex is not a dog, meaning that it might not be particularly eager to want to learn anything. Therefore, to stimulate them mentally, consider getting them puzzle toys.
Like all cats, it should not be difficult to teach your Selkirk how to use the litter box.
Despite having such a luxurious coat, this animal is incredibly easy to groom. And the good news is that it does not shed a lot. The coat traps loose hairs, preventing them from dropping all over. But as a result, matting is bound to occur if you do not groom your Selkirk regularly.
When grooming, avoid over-brushing, as it tends to loosen the curls up. Instead, consider using a wide-toothed comb. Do that a few times a week for best results. Regular baths using a light shampoo should also help you prevent matting. Ask your breeder to show you the best combing techniques so that you do not stretch out the curls.
Make sure that you brush their teeth a few times a week using vet-approved toothpaste while trimming their nails at least every fortnight.
As with any other breed, the Selkirk Rex is predisposed to some genetic health problems. These include polycystic kidney disease, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and hip dysplasia.
The best breeders, however, try to lower the risk of a cat developing those problems by virtue of proper breeding practices. Therefore, do not consider breeders who are not willing to offer you a written health guarantee.
Be sure to take your pet for regular checkups at the vet, and they will live a long and happy life.
The sex of your Selkirk really does not matter as long as the kitten is spayed or neutered. If you do not do that, your Selkirk male can become fiercely territorial when they mature, while the female will develop behavioral problems when she’s in heat.

A post shared by Sand And Waves Cattery (@sandwaves_cattery)

If you have never had a cat before, the Selkirk Rex is perfect for you, as it is a gentle soul that wants nothing but your companionship. However, you must be in a position where they can see you often, as they gets sad and withdrawn if left alone for extended periods. The cat is also good for families, as it gets along with children and other pets.
Featured Image Credit: athree23, Pixabay
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Jessica is a freelance writer who spends most of her day researching and writing while her fluffy Cavapoo, Nora, naps beside her. She loves and appreciates pets and animals because there’s so much to learn from them, and they do so much for people. As a dog owner, she understands the special connection that pet owners form with their pets. She loves sharing helpful information that people can use to better understand their pets. When she’s not writing, you can find her walking dogs, tending to her plant babies, or drinking her nth cup of coffee.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The Selkirk Rex is a medium to large sized cat, built on distinctly chunky lines, with a powerful, muscular body, short muzzle, short legs and rounded head. Their large eyes and soft, ruffled fur give them a deeply attractive expression.
The Selkirk Rex comes in a long or short haired variety and the degree of curl in the coat varies with age, gender, climate and season, but the overall appearance is always that of a plush, soft, luxurious cat.
Selkirk’s come in all colours and coat patterns, and long coats will have a plumed tail and significant ruff around the neck and chest.
The Selkirk Rex cat breed can suffer from:
- Hypotrichosis which is a condition where areas of fur do not grow and this can result in skin infections (particularly yeast infections) due to the lack of oil which is normally produced by the hair in order to maintain healthy skin.
- Polycystic kidney disease which is an inherited condition where cysts form in the kidneys. This affects kidney function and can eventually lead to kidney failure. However, it is worth noting that the risk of developing this disease in this breed is lower than in other cat breeds that are prone to the problem.

Testing available:
- DNA testing for polycystic kidney disease which tests whether a cat has the potential to be affected by this condition,
The Selkirk Rex is described as being mellow, and their nature certainly fits with their adorable, soft, teddy-bear appearance. Loyal and devoted to family and generally affable with visitors, the Selkirk makes a pleasant and not too demanding house-cat. They are, beneath the fluffy coat, an active and playful cat, so will enjoy some play, but won’t tear your home down if you are busy.
The breed originates from a blue tortoiseshell and white feral cat found in Montana in 1987. She produced a litter which had an unusually curly coated kitten, this kitten was adopted by Persian cat breeder Jeri Newman and named DePesto as she was a very attention seeking ‘pester cat’! By breeding from her and researching her mother, Newman discovered that DePesto and her mother were carriers of a new, dominant gene that caused a curly coat. This was not the same gene that caused the curled coats of either the Cornish Rex or the Devon Rex. DePesto was mated with a black Persian cat and produced a litter of six, three of whom were curly coated!
Selkirk Rex’s are named for the Selkirk Mountain range in the North West of the US/South West Canada.
Friendly and sociable, adorable and teddy-bear like, the Selkirk is not well equipped for outdoor life and does present a theft risk. Use a built-in cat run or fully secured garden to offer your Selkirk some outdoor time and fresh air, with total safety. They’ll enjoy some branches to climb and some platforms in choice sunny spots.
Whilst the Selkirk Rex is quite a relaxed cat, they’ll still benefit from some climbing trees and games with ‘things on strings’, however this is not a wildly demanding cat and your presence and your lap for cuddles will suffice much of the time. They don’t cope well with being left entirely alone for long periods but are sociable with other cats as long as you are at home for reasonable amounts of time.
Every cat is unique and each has their own particular likes, dislikes, and needs when it comes to food. However, cats are carnivores and every cat must obtain 41 different and specific nutrients from their food. The proportion of these nutrients will vary depending on age, lifestyle and overall health, so it's not surprising that a growing, energetic kitten needs a different balance of nutrients in her diet than a less active senior cat. Other considerations to bear in mind are feeding the right quantity of food to maintain 'ideal body condition' in accordance with feeding guidelines and catering to individual preference regarding wet or dry food recipes.
Both the long and shorter coated Selkirk Rex’s will require grooming on a daily basis. Their coat is a little too fluffy for them to efficiently groom by themselves. A quick brush through once a day, and a more dedicated groom each week for the longer coated variety will keep them in top fluffy condition. A greasy coat is a sign your cat is not self-grooming at all and this may indicate poor health.
As with all cats, regular vaccination and parasite control is recommended.
The Selkirk Rex is a great family cat, relaxed and cuddly for much of the time, up for some fun and games if they are on offer. This is a ‘low chaos’ cat, suitable for most people as long as you are home for some of the day and each night so that they have company most of the time. They are often a bit too teddy-bear like and soft for very young children to truly understand that they are living beings who need space and respect but they are great with older children and teens.
--------------------------------------------------
The Selkirk Rex is a unique and charming cat breed known for its distinctive curly coat and friendly personality. Tolerant and affectionate, the Selkirk is not always a lap cat, but he likes people and other animals. The most defining feature is its curly coat, which can vary in length from short to long. The curls are soft, plush, and appear all over the body, including the whiskers and eyebrows.
These cats are known for their friendly and affectionate nature. They are social, outgoing, and people-oriented. In summary, these cats are known for their unique and eye-catching curly coat, as well as their friendly and adaptable personalities. If you’re looking for a cat with a distinctive appearance and a loving disposition, the Selkirk Rex might be an excellent choice for your family.
When considering a Selkirk Rex, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Selkirk Rex breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
With a thick coat of woolly looking curls, the Selkirk is sometimes nicknamed the cat in sheep’s clothing. Like his curly-coated cousins the Cornish and Devon Rexes, the Selkirk is the result of a natural genetic mutation, but he has a very different look, thanks to his dense coat and heavy-set body.
The Selkirk originated in Montana, where the first known cat of this type was born in 1987, one of a litter of six kittens found in an animal shelter. The others had the typical straight coat of a domestic shorthaired cat, but the curly-coated female was so unusual that she was brought to the attention of a local Persian breeder, Jeri Newman, who adopted her. Newman named her Miss DePesto and, out of curiosity, bred her when she was grown to a black Persian.
Of the six kittens Miss DePesto produced, three had curly coats, indicating that the gene for the characteristic was dominant. That was not the case with the Cornish or Devon Rexes, which owe their wavy coats to a recessive gene. She also carried genes for long hair and a pointed coat, and both traits made an appearance in her descendants. Newman called the new breed Selkirk, after her stepfather, making it unique among cat breeds in being named for a person. She added Rex to indicate that the coat was curly.
To maintain genetic diversity and to give the cats a more pleasing appearance, she and other breeders outcrossed them not only to Persians but also to Exotics, American Shorthairs and British Shorthairs. The cats were recognized by The International Cat Association and the American Cat Fanciers Association in the 1990s and by the Cat Fanciers Association in 2000, although the CFA began registering the cats in 1992.
These cats weigh 10 to 15 pounds.
The Selkirk is the relaxed Rex. His Persian and British Shorthair ancestors give him a placid, cuddly nature, but he is more active than those breeds and likes to play. People who live with him describe him as sweet and endearing, with a bit of a silly streak. Tolerant and affectionate, the Selkirk is not always a lap cat, but he likes people and other animals.
With his sociable nature, he dislikes being left alone for long periods. Keep this fun-loving cat entertained with a fishing-pole toy or flashlight beam, and he will be thrilled. Ignore him at your peril. He won’t hesitate to demand attention in a small, quiet voice if he feels that he’s not getting his due.
Selkirk Rex cats are generally considered a healthy breed, but like all cat breeds, they can be prone to certain health issues. Responsible breeding practices can help reduce the likelihood of genetic health problems. Here are some health issues that Selkirk Rex cats may be predisposed to:
Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HCM): HCM is a common heart condition in cats, and Selkirk Rex cats can be susceptible to it, just like other breeds. Regular cardiac screenings by a veterinarian can help detect and manage HCM.
Respiratory Infections: Selkirk Rex cats, like other breeds, can be prone to respiratory infections, such as feline herpesvirus (FHV) and feline calicivirus (FCV). These infections can cause sneezing, coughing, and eye discharge.
The Selkirk Rex has a dense coat that should be combed a couple of times a week to prevent or remove tangles. Selkirks do shed, so regular combing also removes dead hair that would otherwise end up on your clothing or furniture or hacked up as hairballs. Gently running your fingers through his coat will help fluff up the curls, just about the easiest styling you can do.
A bath is rarely necessary, but if your Selkirk gets dirty, use a moisturizing shampoo and let him air dry for a few hours in a warm, draft-free place. Using a blow dryer will give him an appearance more like that of a Poodle.
Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Wipe the corners of the eyes daily with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection. Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Like all cats, Selkirk Rex are very particular about bathroom hygiene. It’s a good idea to keep a Selkirk Rex as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Selkirk Rex who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such an unusual cat without paying for it.
Imagine a medium-size to large cat with a heavy-boned but muscular body, a rounded head, and a soft, woolly coat of loose curls that can be short or long in any of a multitude of colors. That’s the Selkirk Rex. Kittens come out curly, go through a straight stage during adolescence, then mature into plush, dense clumps of curls when they are about two years old.
The Selkirk’s facial characteristics include full cheeks—males are downright jowly—broad-based medium-size ears, sometimes with curly furnishings, and large rounded eyes that give a sweet expression. The difference in coat length may not be immediately obvious without first observing the ruff and tail. Shorthairs have a ruff that is the same length as the fur on the rest of the body and plush curls on the tail that lie compactly.
A longhaired Selkirk has a longer ruff that frames the face and plumy curls on the tail that stand out rather than lying demurely in place. With either length, the coat may appear most curly around the neck and on the belly and tail. The coat comes in any genetically possible color or combination of colors. If it’s possible for a cat to be purple polka-dotted, you will find a Selkirk in that pattern. The eyes, too, can be any color.
The gentle but social Selkirk Rex is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, please visit DogTime’s dog breed page!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
The Selkirk Rex was first developed in the United States and since they first appeared on the scene these charming cats quickly became known as wonderful companions and family pets. They boast having extremely laid back personalities and are the biggest of the "rex" type curly coated breeds. Often referred to as the cat in sheep's clothing the Selkirk Rex is a joy to share a home with thanks to their placid and ultra-affectionate natures.
The Selkirk Rex is a relative newcomer to the cat world having been first developed in the United States during the late 1980s. It all happened quite by accident to begin with when one female kitten in a litter was born with an unusual curly coat the mother being a rescue cat but it was unsure who the father was. A breeder interested in genetics adopted the kitten and when she was old enough crossed her with a black Persian male. The mating produced six kittens three with curly coats and three with straight coats. In time the mutation that caused the cat's hair to be curly was seen to be a dominant gene but it was also established that the original cat also carried the recessive gene responsible for the longer hair too.
Because they boast this dominant gene the Selkirk Rex even when mated to other cats will produce "rex" coated kittens with around half of them being born with curly coats. With the breed being so new good records have been kept right from the word go. As such all the Selkirk Rex seen today can be traced back to this one female curly coated kitten who went by the name of Miss dePesto or Pest for short. It was not until 2002 that the very first Selkirk Rex cats landed on UK shores when they were imported from Austria. The following year the breed earned preliminary recognition from the GCCF and full Championship status was awarded the Selkirk Rex in 2009. Today The Selkirk Rex is a popular choice both as a companion and family pet thanks to their charming looks and kind affectionate natures.
The Selkirk Rex can have either short or long hair with the shorter coated cats boasting a dense luxurious curl in their coats which gives them a teddy-bear like look. Longhaired carts have a more tousled look about them and their coat resembles that of a sheep. Kittens are born with curly coats whether they have long or short hair but they can lose their curls which then develop again when they are around 10 months old.
The Selkirk Rex has a short straight broad nose that boasts having a downward slant to it. When seen in profile a cat's nose may look as if it has a convex curve to it. They have well developed firm chins and nice level bites. Their ears are medium in size and can be tufted being set well apart on a cat's head. If a cat has internal furnishings in their ears these are gorgeously curly. Their eyes are lovely and round being large and nicely opened. Eyes are set well apart on a cat's head and can be any colour.
They have quite cobby type bodies with nice level backs which can have a gentle rise to a cat’s powerful and heavy hindquarters. Cats are broad across the shoulders and rumps are large. Their legs are moderately long showing a good amount of bone and paws are firm and rounded. They have thick moderately long tails that are thicker at the base and which boast having a rounded tip to them.
When it comes to their coat the shorthair Selkirk Rex boasts having a thick dense coat that covers their entire bodies with the hair around a cat's neck and tail being the same length as the rest of their bodies which results in it being close lying. Longhaired cats have semi-long hair and they have curly tails where the hair stands well off it. They also have a charming ruff around their necks that also frames a cat's face. Their coats are unstructured being loose individual curls which results in them having a soft and luxurious appearance. A cat's neck belly and tail tends to have the curliest hair. The Selkirk Rex comes in all colours patterns and combinations which includes cats having white markings on any type of coat.
Like a lot of other breeds the Selkirk Rex likes a routine and doesn't particularly like it when this changes for any reason. They like to be fed at the same time of the day and don't appreciate it when furniture gets moved around the home. With this said they are known to be extremely loving cats which is inherited from both parent breeds which boast having kind natures. They are laid-back by nature and tolerant which is one of the reasons why they have become such popular family pets.
They have the "cuddliness" of the Persian and the "cheekiness" of the Exotic Shorthair and they form extremely strong bonds with their owners. As such they hate being left on their own for any length of time. Selkirks are best suited to families where at least one person stays at home when everyone else is out of the house. They are social cats and typically get on well with everybody which includes the family dog and other pets. They are also known to be tolerant around children of all ages. They can be quite chatty although they have soft quiet voices but a Selkirk Rex is always ready and willing to hold a conversation with the people they love and let them know when it is meal time.
The Selkirk Rex is a smart cat and one that enjoys playing interactive games. They have a very clown-like side to their natures which just adds to their endearing personalities. They may not be as intelligent as some other breeds but a Selkirk Rex quickly learns how to open doors or cupboards and likes to be given things to do to keep their minds occupied when they are not cat napping that is. They thrive on being around people and if left alone for any length of time it’s important for them to have lots of things to keep them occupied and to prevent boredom and stress setting in.
With their outgoing affectionate personalities the Selkirk Rex is the perfect choice for families with children because of their playful tolerant natures. However care has to be taken when very young children are around cats and any interaction should always be supervised by an adult to make sure things stay nice and calm. With this said younger children need to be taught how to behave around cats and when it is time to leave them alone.
They also get on well with dogs especially if they have grown up together. However care has to be taken when introducing a Selkirk Rex to dogs they don't already know just in case the dog does not get on with their feline counterparts. They are incredibly social by nature and have been known to get on with small animals. However it's always wiser to keep a close eye on any cat when they are around smaller pets particularly when they first meet each other just to be on the safe side.
The average life expectancy of a Selkirk Rex is between 10 and 15 years when properly cared for and fed an appropriate good quality diet to suit their ages.
The Selkirk Rex is known to suffer from a few hereditary health issues which are worth knowing about if you are planning share your home with one of these lovely looking curly coated cats. The conditions that seem to affect the breed the most include the following:
As with any other breed a Selkirk Rex needs to be groomed on a regular basis to make sure their coats and skin are kept in top condition. On top of this cats need to be fed good quality food that meets all their nutritional needs throughout their lives which is especially true of kittens and older cats.
A Selkirk Rex can boast having a short close lying coat or a semi-long loose curly coat. Cats with short hair need less in the way of grooming than their longhaired counterparts. A weekly brush is all it takes to keep their coats in good condition. Longer haired Selkirks are higher maintenance on the grooming front and need to be brushed several times a week to prevent tangles and knots from forming. However it's important not to "over groom" a cat. It's also worth bearing in mind that some cats have a bit of a greasy feel to their coat which is perfectly natural.
Like other cats they tend to shed the most in the Spring and then again in the Autumn when more frequent brushing is usually necessary to keep on top of things. It's also important to check a cat's ears on a regular basis and to clean them when necessary. If too much wax is allowed to build up it can lead to a painful infection which can be hard to clear up. In short prevention is often easier than cure with ear infections. Cats often suffer from ear mites which can be a real problem which is why it's so important to check their ears on a regular basis.
The Selkirk Rex may be a laid back tolerant cat by nature but they also boast having a bit of cheeky streak in them. They adore playing interactive games which includes activities like "fetch". However they are not overly demanding and are just as happy to curl up on a lap once the games are over. With this said cats kept as indoor pets need to be given lots of things to do and places to hide when they want to bearing in mind that the Selkirk loves to climb up high so they can look down on the world below. They also need to have lots of places they can snuggle up for a snooze when the mood takes them because if there is one thing the Selkirk really enjoys it's snoozing during the day.
If you get a Selkirk Rex kitten from a breeder they would give you a feeding schedule and it's important to stick to the same routine feeding the same kitten food to avoid any tummy upsets. You can change a kitten's diet but this needs to be done very gradually always making sure they don't develop any digestive upsets and if they do it's best to put them back on their original diet and to discuss things with the vet before attempting to change it again.
Older cats are not known to be fussy eaters but this does not mean they can be given a lower quality diet. It's best to feed a mature cat several times a day making sure it's good quality food that meets all their nutritional requirements which is especially important as cats get older. It's also essential to keep an eye on a cat's weight because if they start to put on too much it can have a serious impact on their overall health and wellbeing. Like all other breeds the Selkirk needs access to fresh clean water at all times.
If you are looking to buy a Selkirk Rex you would need to pay anything from £300 to well over £600 for a well-bred pedigree kitten. The cost of insuring a male 3-year-old Selkirk Rex in northern England would be £11.67 a month for basic cover but for a lifetime policy this would set you back £24.07 a month (quote as of October 2016). When insurance companies calculate a pet's premium they factor in several things which includes where you live in the UK a cat's age and whether or not they have been neutered or spayed among other things.
When it comes to food costs you need to buy the best quality food whether wet or dry making sure it suits the different stages of a cat’s life. This would set you back between £15 - £20 a month. On top of all of this you need to factor in veterinary costs if you want to share your home with a Selkirk and this includes their initial vaccinations their annual boosters the cost of neutering or spaying a cat when the time is right and their yearly health checks all of which quickly adds up to over £600 a year.
As a rough guide the average cost to keep and care for a Selkirk Rex would be between £25 to £55 a month depending on the level of insurance cover you opt to buy for your cat but this does not include the initial cost of buying a well-bred kitten.
--------------------------------------------------
