Introduction to the Shih Tzu
Physical Characteristics
Temperament and Personality
Health and Lifespan
Grooming Needs
Exercise Requirements
Training and Socialization
Dietary Needs
Choosing a Shih Tzu
Conclusion
--------------------------------------------------
This breed has held a place in many dog lovers’ hearts for hundreds if not thousands of years

Life expectancy: 18 years
Size: 9-10.5-inches
Coat: Long double coat
Temperament: Playful, intelligent, lively, friendly, affectionate
Exercise needs: Less than an hour each day
Origin/native country: Tibet
Shih Tzus originated from Tibet and you can trace their ancestral history as far back as 3,000 years. Associated with the Tibetan Buddhist God of Learning, their name translates from Mandarin to English as Little Lion but, far from being fierce, they’ve been bred to be friendly and loyal – a playmate for a palace more than anything else.
Over the years, they’ve proven to be very popular with a host of celebrities who like nothing better than to pamper their pooch (while finding a dog who is very receptive to the attention). So while they’re never going to be the best guard dog and while their bark is definitely worse than their bite, that’s the appeal. So let’s take a look at whether this breed should be on your list for consideration.
Shih Tzus are small, one of the low-energy dog breeds and were bred to be indoor dogs. But you can’t get away with simply allowing them to play within the house or even in the yard. You still need to get them walking outside each day – but the good news is that you won’t need to devote lots of time to the task.
“Shih Tzus require moderate amounts of exercise – approximately 30–60 minutes each day, depending on their age and health status,” says expert vet Dr Rebecca MacMillan.
This can be split into two or three sessions and simply consist of a brisk walk around the block. Make sure it’s not strenuous and mix it with some indoor play to keep their minds sharp and you’ll find a Shih Tzu will be more than happy and healthy.
Shih Tzus have a reputation for being a bit yappy and they can bark at pretty much anything, be it people or other animals walking by or even a passing vehicle. As Dr MacMillan says: “Shih Tzus can be quite vocal dogs, so excessive barking is common.: And yet they don’t have to be like that.
“Appropriate training and early socialization will help to curb these urges,” Dr MacMillan adds. “Making sure that your Shih Tzu is receiving enough exercise and mental stimulation will also help because anxiety and boredom can make vocalizing much worse.”
Get the best advice, tips and top tech for your beloved Pets
Shih Tzus actually rank low in the degree of working/obedience intelligence according to canine psychology expert Stanley Coren. He places them in the bottom 11 smartest dog rankings in his book “The Intelligence of Dogs” which means they will need as many as 100 repetitions before they understand a new command. They’ll only obey the first command a quarter of the time or worse.
So, no, Shih Tzus are not the easiest dogs to train. They are stubborn and they need an abundance of patience coupled with lots of positive reinforcement. Training sessions will also need to be brief because they become bored all too easily which can become frustrating. And yet you need to persevere and see it as a challenge, more so if you’re going to try and overcome problems associated with separation anxiety.
“Shih Tzus are prone to separation anxiety issues,” says Dr MacMillan. “These little dogs must be trained to be left on their own for short periods from an early age so that they learn to be happy in their own company.”

Despite the training challenges, Shih Tzus do make good family pets primarily because they’ve been bred to be around humans and act as a loving companion. The are also one of the longest living dog breeds.
“They are extremely sociable and playful dogs and they enjoy the company of their owners,” says Dr MacMillan. Their calm demeanour and even-temper makes them great to have around, but it’s always worth warning children not to be too hands on because that can make this breed nervous. Shih Tzus are also a particularly good breed for introverted owners.
Shih Tzus have long fur but they are actually average shedders, which may come as a surprise – they generally only shed lots when they change their coats as puppies.
But the fur still needs to be kept in check to the point where you’re going to be giving them a bath almost every week. Without regular grooming, a Shih Tzu can become unhealthy and unhappy and you will need to pay particular attention to certain areas such as around the mouth, nose and eyes.
“Shih Tzus are generally considered high-maintenance dogs due to their grooming needs,” says Dr MacMillan. “Their coat needs daily brushing with a trip to the groomers for a trim every six weeks or so to help prevent tangles and mats. Shih Tzus are also prone to dental disease, which makes oral hygiene essential. Daily teeth brushing is recommended for all dogs, but especially Shih Tzus.”
The Shih Tzu is a generally healthy little dog, but like many small dog breeds, it is prone to a condition called patellar luxation.
“This is where the patella, or kneecap, slides out of its normal position. This can lead to limping and the early onset of osteoarthritis,” says Dr Rebecca MacMillan.
Shih Tzus are also a brachycephalic breed, which means they have flattened faces.
“We see other issues alongside this like dental abnormalities, as well as narrowed nostrils and airways,” Dr MacMillan adds. “This can affect their breathing and ability to exercise freely. I also see plenty of Shih Tzus with eye problems such as corneal ulcers, cherry eyes, and dry eye.”
A Shih Tzu has been bred to appeal to people who generally desire an indoor dog – a canine who is quite happy pottering around your home for much of its time on earth. They’ll happily sit on your lap, engage in a cuddle and embark only on short walks to get some fresh air. Their small size also makes them a suitable breed for apartment living. They won’t be taking up much space, that’s for sure.
But a breed such as this isn’t for everyone. For as good as Shih Tzus are with children and as great as they are at just pottering around, they’re not ideal if you’re highly active and outdoorsy. They’re not wonderful if you want to teach a dog lots of tricks and neither are they a good choice if you worry about brachycephalic breeds in general.
Complete Guide To Shih Tzus | Amazon
Using interviews with 17 top Shih Tzu breeders, this book has created an in-depth look at what it really takes to successfully live with, raise, and train a Shih Tzu.
Rebecca is a veterinary surgeon who graduated in 2009 from the Royal Veterinary College in London. She has a wealth of experience in first opinion small animal practice, having done a mixture of day-to-day routine work, on-call emergency duties and managerial roles over the years. Rebecca enjoys medicine in particular and she is proud to have recently achieved a BSAVA postgraduate certificate in small animal medicine (with commendation).
She writes on various feline and canine topics, including behavior, nutrition, and health. Outside of work and writing she enjoys walking her own dog, spending time with her young family and baking!
Edited by Georgia Guerin.
This feature was last updated on March 2, 2025.
David Crookes has been a journalist for more than 20 years and he has written for a host of magazines, newspapers, websites and books including World of Animals, BBC Earth, Dogs and Canines, Gadget and The Independent. Born in England, he lives in a household with two cats but he’s also keenly interested in the differences between the huge number of dog breeds — in fact, you can read many of his breed guides here on PetsRadar. With a lifelong passion for technology, too, he’s always on the lookout for useful devices that will allow people to spend more time with their pets.
Staffordshire Bull Terrier: This ‘eager to please but excitable’ breed makes for a ‘lovely family dog’
Bull Terriers have a unique ‘Marmite’ look but they can be energetic, playful pets
12 things you should know about having a baby when you’ve already got a dog
--------------------------------------------------
Collection of all the general dog breed info about Shih Tzu so you can get to know the breed more.
Inbreeding is common because of its popularity. A new study suggests that inbreeding contributes to the incidence of disease and health problems.
Some dogs handle moderate punishment very well, while others crumble apart at a dirty look. This breed is not affected emotionally by moderate punishment.
The main triggers for barking are fear, attention, alarm, boredom, greeting, separation anxiety, compulsive barking, and defense.
Low  🔽
Between 100 and 200 PSI  🔽
Shih Tzu bite wounds might not be as severe, but it is still essential to be cautious and prevent any biting incidents.
They are usually not aggressive and very friendly towards children and other animals. To ensure a well-behaved dog, it's essential to learn how to train a Shih Tzu puppy not to bite from an early age. With proper training and socialization, a Shih Tzu can be a wonderful addition to any family, providing love and companionship for years to come.
Do Shih Tzu dogs need a lot of exercises?
If you notice any weight gain, consult your veterinarian and make a diet plan. Reduce unhealthy food and snacks, and measure the Shih Tzu weight regularly.
Cutting the dog's hair by a professional groomer is essential. Everyday brushing of the dog's coat is necessary to reduce shedding.
Ears and eyes should be cleaned regularly to avoid infections. Don't skip the seasonal flea treatment too. Dog nail trimming and dog bath should be on a weekly schedule.
Taking good care of your Shih Tzu is time-consuming and requires excellent grooming skills. If you don't have the time and skill search for the best dog groomer or clipping service in your area and book an appointment.
If you notice any change in your dog's drooling habit, you should contact a vet as soon as possible.
Low  🔽The Shih Tzu has a low chance of bad smell. Top reasons for dog stinkiness: infection of bad tooth/ear/skin folds, gas attacks.
The Shih Tzu has a low chance of bad smell. Top reasons for dog stinkiness: infection of bad tooth/ear/skin folds, gas attacks.
Bathing your dog is beneficial to them in more ways than just one. It’s also a good time to look for unusual scratches, bumps, fleas, and other irregularities. When their hair is wet and flat against their body, these details are more visible.
Not really This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for service purposes.
This breed generally not used as a service dog. A service dog is a term used in the USA to refer to any type of assistance dog specifically trained to help people who have disabilities, such as visual impairment, hearing impairments, mental disorders, seizures, mobility impairment, and diabetes. Service dogs are protected under the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act).
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for service purposes.
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for service purposes.
Not really This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
This breed is generally not used as a therapy dog. A therapy dog is a dog that might be trained to provide affection, comfort, and love to people in hospitals, retirement homes, nursing homes, schools, hospices, disaster areas, and people with anxiety disorders or autism.
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for therapeutic purposes.
Not really They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for detection purposes.
They are not typically employed for this type of work, but there may be exceptional cases. A detection dog or sniffer dog is a dog that is trained to use its senses (mostly its smell) to detect substances such as explosives, illegal drugs, wildlife scat, currency, blood, and contraband electronics such as illicit mobile phones.
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for detection purposes.
Not really This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Shih Tzu is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
This dog breed is not typically used as a search and rescue dog. The use of dogs in search and rescue (SAR) is a valuable component in wilderness tracking, natural disasters, mass casualty events, and locating missing people.
The Shih Tzu is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
The Shih Tzu is not the best breed for SAR purposes.
Not really Shih Tzu breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Shih Tzu breed usually doesn't like being on a boat. Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Boat dogs were typically bred for their strength, stamina, and water resistance, as they were often required to perform tasks such as pulling in fishing nets, and jumping into the water to retrieve ropes or lines, or helping to move cargo.
Sailor dog is a type of dog that was bred to accompany sailors on their voyages. They were typically used for three purposes: as a working dog, a watchdog, and as a companion. A boat dog is a term used to describe a type of dog that was traditionally bred and used as a working dog on boats.
Not really A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
A drafting dog or draft dog is a dog bred and used for cart pulling. Dogs bred for this work have strong builds and qualities that are needed, strength and determination.
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Shih Tzu is not the best breed for drafting purposes.
Not really In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
In history, this breed was not really used for combat dog.
60-64 days
During this time the females start to attract males. You can notice by swelling vulva and bloody discharge.
The second part is the Estrus when the female is receptive for the male. It lasts for about 3 to 11 days.
The sign of the proestrus part is the soft and enlarged vulva. The discharge decreases and lightens in color.
The third part is the Diestrus. Normally, it occurs around day 14. In this period the female’s discharge changes for vivid red and coming to its end. The vulva returns to average, and she will no longer permit mating.
The fourth part called the Anestrus. The time frame between heat periods normally lasts about six months.
Once a year.
The Shih Tzu’s history goes back to ancient times, and it is steep in mystery and controversy. Recent research suggests that the Shih Tzu is one of the 14 oldest dog breeds in the world, dog bones found in China have proven that the dogs were there as early as 8000 B.C.
Some experts presume that the breed was created by Tibetan Monks and given as gifts to the Chinese nobility and royalty. It is also speculated that the Shih Tzu was developed in China by crossing other breeds with other Sino-Tibetan breeds and the Pekingese or Lhasa Aspo. Regardless of where the breed was created, it is crystal clear that dogs were treasured companions from the earliest times.
Writings, arts, and paintings from China’s Tang Dynasty, from 618-907 A.D. exhibit small companion dogs similar to today’s Shih Tzu. References to the dogs’ existence appeared from 990 to 994 A.D. in wall carvings and drawings.
Marco Polo reported in the 13th century, that the Mongolian Emperor, kept small so-called, lion dogs with trained hunting lions in order to keep the lions calm. Between 1368 and 1644, during the Ming Dynasty, royal families kept Shih Tzu type of dogs that strongly resembled lions.
Thus, consequently the name Shih Tzu means little lion, yet there is nothing fierce about the breed, they are more of a companion dog than fighting beasts. Another legend suggests that Buddha traveled with little dogs fitting the description of today’s Shih Tzu. The story states that one day, a couple of robbers came upon Buddha with the intent of robbing and murdering him.
Because of the dogs’ heroic actions, many also believe that Fu Dogs, the guardians of Buddhist temples are also representations of Shih Tzus. The breed gained more popularity in the Imperial Court after a royal concubine became the Empress of China, in 1861. The Dalai Lama gave her a pair of Shih Tzus, reportedly the source of the imperial palace's little lion dogs, during Empress Tzu Hsi's reign.
In 1908 after her death, many of the nobility competed to produce dogs of the finest colors and coats. Because of the fierce breeding competition, the breeding plans and practices remained in secret, resulting in poor quality dogs sold in mass marketplaces, and good quality dogs being smuggled out of the country.
The first pair of Shih Tzus were brought to England in 1938 from Peking by Lady Brownrigg. Maureen Murdock and Philip Price were the first to bring and breed Shih Tzus in the United States.
The breed got recognized by the AKC (American Kennel Club) in 1969. Since then, the Shih Tzu has been one of the most popular breeds both in the UK and in the US. The breed’s fanciers include Queen Elizabeth II. and pop-star Miley Cyrus.
Jun 11, 2024, 12:18:42 AM:
shit
Jun 11, 2024, 12:18:26 AM:
shit
Jun 11, 2024, 12:17:36 AM:
their peices of shits its in the name
Mar 16, 2023, 6:42:55 AM:
Cute
Mar 15, 2023, 6:34:30 PM:
Cute
Mar 15, 2023, 6:33:50 PM:
Dope AF
Mar 9, 2022, 11:38:57 AM:

Nov 23, 2020, 12:18:13 PM:

Nov 6, 2020, 10:27:08 PM:
Shih tzus are amazing! I had a shih tzu recently, and are in the process of getting one. She barked only when she needed to go out, and she just loved sitting on the couch with us! Overall, great breed! Go get a shih tzu!
Sep 17, 2020, 5:49:12 AM:
Love the dog breed! Absolutely hate the breakdown on this site. It is so far off. Atrocious. Seriously, I’ve owned multiple Shih Tzus and this info isn’t even close. It contradicts itself even. Other breeds are WAY off too. Just pitiful.
Aug 15, 2020, 2:08:46 PM:
My current Shih Tzu doesn't bark, LOVES meeting new people, and loves to playing with toys. She's highly intelligent and figures out things very easily, hates being alone, and is just the sweetest little thing. Shih Tzus make great companions!
Jun 25, 2020, 1:58:40 AM:

Mar 25, 2020, 2:34:55 PM:
--------------------------------------------------
Spring Sale! 20%off Sitewide, Code: SP20
30 Days Money-Back Guarantee
Free Shipping For Orders $79+
Cart
Your cart is empty
Shih Tzu dogs, often referred to as "lion dogs" or "little lions," are a popular toy breed known for their affectionate nature, long flowing coats, and deep historical roots. Originally bred for Chinese royalty, these wonderful companions are loved by pet parents worldwide. Whether you are considering getting a Shih Tzu puppy or already have one, this guide will cover everything you need to know about the breed, including its history, temperament, health issues, grooming needs, and dietary requirements.
The Shih Tzu history dates back to the Ming Dynasty, where they were bred as lap dogs for emperors and noble families. These little dogs were often referred to as Fu Dogs, symbolizing protection and good fortune. Legend has it that Buddha kissed a Shih Tzu on the forehead, leaving a signature white marking seen in some Shih Tzu dogs today.
In the early 20th century, Lady Brownrigg brought the Shih Tzu breed to England, where they gained recognition among European aristocrats. Eventually, the breed made its way to the United States and was officially recognized by the American Kennel Club (AKC) as part of the toy group.

Weight: 9–16 pounds
Height: 9–10.5 inches
Coat Length: Long hair, available in various coat types and colors
Floppy ears, which require regular cleaning to prevent ear infections
Minimal shedders, but still not completely Shih Tzu hypoallergenic
Shih Tzus are affectionate, friendly, and adaptable. They thrive on human companionship and love to spend time with their families, whether it’s cuddling on the couch or watching TV. Unlike some other breeds, Shih Tzu bark levels are moderate—they’ll alert you to strangers but aren’t excessive barkers.
Shih Tzus generally get along well with other dogs, other pets, and other animals, making them excellent multi-pet household companions. However, early socialization is key to ensuring they develop good manners.
One of the most distinctive features of the Shih Tzu breed is its beautiful coat. However, maintaining it requires regular grooming.
Brushing: Since Shih Tzu hair grows continuously, daily brushing helps prevent tangles and mats.
Professional Groomer: Many Shih Tzu owners take their dogs to a professional groomer every 4-6 weeks.
Ear Care: Due to their floppy ears, Shih Tzus are prone to ear infections if not cleaned regularly.
Bathing: Frequent baths help reduce excessive tear production and keep the coat clean.
Hypoallergenic? While they are minimal shedders, they are not truly hypoallergenic and may still cause reactions in people who allergies react to dog dander.
Shih Tzus respond best to positive reinforcement methods, such as treats, praise, and playtime. Training should start at a young age, focusing on:
Early socialization to prevent fearfulness around other breeds and other dogs
Consistent training for housebreaking and basic commands
Patience, as some Shih Tzus can be a bit stubborn
While generally healthy, Shih Tzus are prone to some health issues, including:
Brachycephalic Syndrome: Their short snouts can cause breathing difficulties.
Dental Problems: Their small mouths make them prone to tooth crowding and decay.
Patellar Luxation: A condition where the hind leg kneecaps slip out of place.
Hip Dysplasia: A common joint issue in small breeds.
Progressive Retinal Atrophy: An eye condition that can lead to blindness.
Liver Shunts & Kidney Disease: Some Shih Tzus may develop organ-related conditions.
Regular check-ups with a veterinarian specializing in veterinary medicine can help manage these conditions.
A balanced diet is crucial for Shih Tzus to maintain a healthy weight and avoid digestive issues. Key considerations include:
High-quality dog food with real meat and essential nutrients
Dry kibble to help with dental health
Portion control to prevent obesity
Avoiding human foods that can be toxic to dogs
The average Shih Tzu lifespan ranges between 10-16 years, with proper care extending their life expectancy. Providing them with a balanced diet, regular vet visits, and exercise helps ensure they live a long, happy life.
For those looking for a unique variation of the breed, there are several popular Shih Tzu mixes, including:
Shih-Poo (Shih Tzu + Poodle)
Shorkie (Shih Tzu + Yorkshire Terrier)
Mal-Shi (Shih Tzu + Maltese)
These mixed breeds often inherit traits from both parents, making them great options for those seeking something a little different.

If you want a loving, low-energy, wonderful companion that enjoys being around people, a Shih Tzu may be the perfect choice. However, they require frequent grooming, potential health issue management, and early socialization to ensure a well-rounded temperament.
Friendly and affectionate
Good with other dogs and other pets
Adaptable to apartments and small homes
Requires regular grooming
Prone to dental problems and ear infections
Needs consistent training due to occasional stubbornness
The average Shih Tzu lifespan is between 10-16 years, depending on genetics, diet, and healthcare. Ensuring they get the right nutrition, exercise, and vet check-ups can help extend their life expectancy.
If you’re looking for a wonderful companion that loves to spend time with you, cuddle, and even watch TV, a Shih Tzu might be the perfect choice! However, be prepared for frequent grooming, potential health issues, and the need for early socialization.
Shih Tzus are affectionate, adaptable, and friendly small dogs that make excellent pets for families, seniors, and individuals alike. Whether you’re bringing home a Shih Tzu puppy or adopting an older dog of the same breed, these little dogs will bring joy and love into your home.
By providing high-quality dog food, regular grooming, and consistent training, you can ensure your Shih Tzu lives a happy, healthy life!
Email Us
--------------------------------------------------
Get 20% OFF & Free Delivery
Get 20% OFF & Free Delivery
Your Cart is Empty

Bred in 15th Century Tibet and a firm favorite of imperial royalty, the Shih Tzus we know today are famous for their lap dog status. With a friendly and cheerful nature, they are excellent companions who love nothing more than spending time with their humans around the home.

If you are considering adding a Shih Tzu to your family, you’ve come to the right place!

In this dog profile we are going to take a look at the Shih Tzu breed, the characteristics of the breed, their temperament and how they interact with humans and other dogs, health conditions to be aware of, as well as how to go about choosing the perfect pup for you.
Key Points - Shih Tzu at a Glance
Breed History
Appearance
Temperament
Training and Discipline
Care and Maintenance
Nutrition and Feeding
Health and Diseases
Who Is This Breed Suitable For
How to Choose a Puppy
How Much Does the Breed Cost
Lifespan
11 - 14 years
Size
Small / Toy Breed
Weight
9 -16 lbs
Height
9 - 10.5 inches
Colors
Any color, however most common include white, black, brown, blue, liver and gold
Size of home
Any size; smaller dog breeds will fit comfortably into a flat or house environment
Exercise
Only require moderate exercise, a short daily walk (30 mins or less) and some stimulating playtime
Grooming
Daily brushing and weekly bathing - as well as trimming when needed - to ensure proper maintenance of their long coat

Often nicknamed ‘chrysanthemum dogs’, as their small features surrounded by sprouting fur tend to resemble the flower itself, Shih Tzus are a friendly and energetic dog breed, preferring snuggles to arduous outdoor adventure but still having a fun and playful nature.

Shih Tzus are known for their people skills, loving spending time with humans and will strive for your attention and affection as well as often being very good with children when properly trained and socialized.

Something to keep in mind is that Shih Tzus were originally bred as alert dogs, and so may have a tendency to bark or yap when meeting new people or when startled by certain sights or sounds. However if they are properly trained in a loving home, this shouldn’t be much of an issue.

Fun fact: did you know that Shih Tzus were originally associated with Buddhism, being bred by the spiritual leaders to specifically look like lions, hence their name being of Chinese origin and translating to ‘lion dog’.

Indeed, the lion was considered an auspicious symbol in Chinese culture, symbolizing strength, courage, and protection.
Hailing from Tibet in the 15th Century, it is believed that Shih Tzus were later gifted to Chinese emperors and subsequently bred with other dogs such as pekingese and pugs, giving you the sweet softies we know today as Shih Tzus!

In the 13th Century it was discovered that Shih Tzus were kept alongside trained hunting lions, under decree of the Mongolian Emperor Kublai, as a way of keeping the lions calm. These tiny dogs were also a favorite of the Chinese royal family throughout the Ming Dynasty.

Who’d have thought such a little dog could have such big adventures!
In terms of their introduction to the Western world, despite their historic popularity in Asia, this breed continued to be relatively unknown in the west until as late as the early 20th century. In fact, it wasn’t until the 1930s where they emerged in Europe and North America and gained popularity with dog lovers here.

In 1969, the American Kennel Club (AKC) officially recognized the Shih Tzu breed. Since this decade, Shih Tzus have grown in popularity to become one of the most widely recognized and favored breeds in the USA, as well as worldwide.

In the modern day, the Shih Tzu breed is predominantly kept as a family pet specifically because of their highly affectionate nature. And because they are so outgoing, they make fantastic canine companions for all age demographics. Plus, with their associations with Chinese royalty, it’s no surprise that they’re largely considered to be one of the most elegant and graceful of dog breeds.
Shih Tzu dogs can be characterized by their small but sturdy frame, small and flat facial features, often with bright eyes and a big smile due to their wider lower jaw, as well as their long and silky coats which can grow to glamorously long lengths.

These luscious coats also come in a plethora of colors, with the most common being white, black, brown, blue, liver and gold.
Shih Tzus are a notoriously friendly and affectionate breed; their happy place is being sat on their owner’s lap or receiving lots of fuss and cuddles. They will follow you from room to room around the house so be prepared to grow a second shadow!

These pups thrive in a loving environment and will be extremely loyal to those who show them care and attention.

They are known to be a great dog choice for young families, and while, like any dog, they will require proper training, Shih Tzus are naturally sweet and charming and so already have that going for them.
As Shih Tzus are generally very sociable pups, this means they typically get along well with other pets within the home. Just note that they’ll need to be properly socialized and introduced, in order to achieve a harmonious household.

Likewise, it’s important to recognize that individual temperament can vary. So to ensure that a Shih Tzu is well-adjusted and not reactive to other pets, it’s best to engage in early socialization and positive experiences with other animals can help ensure that they are accepting of other pets within the home.

Also, it’s interesting to note that as Shih Tzus were originally bred as companion dogs, this means they can tend to be more comfortable around pets of a similar or smaller stature - as opposed to much larger pets. This is primarily due to their small size causing them to feel potentially more vulnerable around larger or more assertive pets. So when matching your Shih Tzu up with other pets in the household, it would be beneficial to consider their size and also if their energy levels are complementary too.

However, that said, Shih Tzus can also demonstrate a prey drive. So if you currently have pets such as rodents or birds, this is something to consider. Again, early socialization and training can help to manage or even mitigate this drive, or constant supervision will be required if they share the same space within the home.

On the whole, Shih Tzus do have the capacity to coexist harmoniously with other pets. You’ll just need to ensure proper introductions are made, to start off on the best note, as well as offering constant supervision and ongoing training to  maintain a successfully happy multi-pet household.
When it comes to training your Shih Tzu, they are natural born people pleasers and so will likely follow instruction pretty well, with positive reinforcement in the form of fuss and treats seeming to be the way to their heart.

They are smart little cookies, and while this can be beneficial when it comes to training, it can also mean that they may try and charm their way out of doing things they don’t want to do.

It has also been shown that they may require a little more repetition when it comes to things like indoor potty training, but with love and patience they’ll get the hang of things in no time.
As mentioned, because of Shih Tzus tendency to be both intelligent, but also independent and stubborn at times, this means that training will require patience, consistency, and the use of positive reinforcement techniques.

Some tips for successfully training a Shih Tzu include starting early, beginning socialization when they are a puppy to establish a solid foundation for obedience and behavior. Likewise, using praise and rewards for positive reinforcement will help to encourage desired behaviors, as well as making training sessions more enjoyable and building your bond with a Shih Tzu.

One thing we’d highly recommend for this breed is also keeping training sessions short and sweet, as Shih Tzus tend to have a short attention span. If you aim to keep training sessions around 10-15 minutes long at a time, this will ensure they remain engaging and motivating for your dog.

Clear commands are a must, as well as patience and consistency in what hand signals or verbal cues you use, as this breed can take a little longer to grasp and understand commands in comparison to others. But they’re definitely worth your devotion in the end!
Likewise, we would also recommend regularly trimming your Shih Tzu's nails. This will help to prevent them from becoming too long and causing discomfort or difficulty walking. You’ll also want to brush your Shih Tzu’s teeth regularly with a dog-specific toothbrush and toothpaste to keep their teeth and gums healthy.

Finally, many Shih Tzu owners take their dog to a professional groomer for a trim every 4-6 weeks. This can be useful, if for example you’re not as comfortable with grooming tasks such as coat trimming or nail clipping. The benefits of engaging a professional groomer mean you can help keep your Shih Tzu's coat in top condition and ensure they look their best, whilst also more quickly identifying if your dog is developing any issues such as poor dental health or ear infections.
The Shih Tzu breed are known for their luscious and often quite long fur coats, which if not properly maintained can lead to matting and unpleasant tangles. They may also be more prone to skin irritation, and so keeping a close eye on this during daily grooming will help catch any issues quickly.

We recommended giving your Shih Tzu a thorough brush daily to comb out any knots, and then bathing them once a week - more often if needed - to ensure there isn’t a build up of dirt or bacteria in their long coats.

Shih Tzus also have a lot of facial hair, meaning that eye and ear irritation is a common issue amongst the breed. Tear staining and fur discoloration can occur around the eyes, and ear infections can be quite prominent; regularly cleaning your dog’s eyes and ears and keeping their fur trimmed to a manageable level will help avoid these problems.
When it comes to feeding your Shih Tzu, the right diet can depend on several factors like their age, activity level, and any health conditions they may have. The best way to ensure your pup is getting all the nutrients they need is to consult with a veterinary nutritionist. A professional can help you determine the right amount of calories and the ideal balance of proteins, fats, and carbohydrates for your little friend.

You have a couple of options when it comes to what to feed your Shih Tzu. Some owners prefer a natural diet, which involves preparing meals at home. While this can be a great choice, it does require some effort and knowledge to ensure you're giving them the right amount of nutrients and calories. For those who are new to pet nutrition, it might feel a bit tricky at first, but with some patience, it’s possible to master!

For owners looking for a simpler solution, commercial pet food (whether dry or wet) can be a convenient option. These products come with clear labeling, making it easy to know exactly what and how much to feed your dog. Dry food, in particular, is practical—it's easy to store, lasts a long time, and can even double as treats during training sessions or be taken on walks for a little snack along the way.

When choosing a diet, it’s important to remember that dogs, including Shih Tzus, are natural carnivores, meaning they thrive on a protein-rich diet. Meat, fish, and eggs should be the main focus of their meals, while carbohydrates should be given sparingly, as dogs don't digest them as easily as we do. They also need only a small amount of fat.
Keeping a regular feeding routine is key to keeping your Shih Tzu healthy. Most adult dogs do great on a schedule of two meals a day, while puppies often need to eat more frequently, sometimes 3 to 5 times a day. It's best to avoid too many snacks between meals to prevent overeating and unwanted weight gain.

Lastly, there are a few human foods you should always steer clear of when feeding your Shih Tzu, including avocado, chocolate, grapes, and raisins, as these can be harmful to dogs. With the right balance and a bit of attention, your Shih Tzu can enjoy healthy and delicious food every day!
Like any dog breed, Shih Tzus can be more prone to certain health issues. Here are some of the main ones to keep an eye out for:

Brachycephalic Syndrome: Unfortunately, dog breeds with flatter faces are more prone to a condition called brachycephalic syndrome, in which the abnormal anatomy of the dog’s airway makes it harder for them to breathe properly. Not only can the condition make your dog breathe noisily and start to snore, it can also make it harder for them to exercise and can even cause excessive nasal discharge.

Mouth problems: Smaller dog breeds can sometimes be prone to dental problems, more so than larger breeds. This can be due to the fact that their mouths are smaller, and therefore overcrowded teeth and displacement are more common. This means food and tartar can build up quicker and contribute to certain dental diseases and decay.
Hip dysplasia: Caused by an underdeveloped hip joint, this painful condition causes an unsteady gait and some muscle loss in dogs.

Patella Luxation: Occurring when the kneecap shifts sideways and out of position, the condition is often characterized by symptoms such as intermittent limping, lower back hunching and hind leg bowleggedness. Treatment includes restricted exercise, anti-inflammatory medicines and surgery if required.
If you live in a small apartment, a Shih Tzu could be your perfect little companion. While they do enjoy their walks, they don’t need intense exercise, making them a great choice for less active individuals or older owners who want a furry friend without the demands of high energy levels.

These affectionate pups love nothing more than showering you with attention and receiving it in return. If you’re ever feeling lonely, a Shih Tzu will gladly stick by your side and brighten your day with their cheerful and loving nature.
Being a toy breed, Shih Tzus aren’t cut out for hunting or guarding duties. They’re generally friendly toward strangers, with no signs of mistrust or aggression. Their curious and trusting personality makes them approachable and easy going around new people.

Shih Tzus also love to play, so they’re a fantastic match for families with school-aged children. But if you have very young kids, you might want to reconsider. These dogs, with their royal heritage, may not appreciate rough or overly boisterous play from little ones.

Always do your research before choosing your Shih Tzu puppy; whether you are rescuing or buying a puppy, you’ll want to have a good background on their health, whether they have any inherited conditions or diseases, and if you are buying you will need to ensure it is from a reputable breeder.

The best way to gauge this is to go and visit your puppy in person, which will allow you to see the puppy’s state with your own eyes, as well as see if you have a bond with them. You’ll get to know their personality, whether they are drawn to you and if they are the right fit for your family.
Of course prices may vary from breeder to breeder, however on average a Shih Tzu puppy can cost anywhere between $500 and $2000. This can even stretch up to the $5000 if they are from a high end breeder and have a future of dog competition championships ahead of them.

And this is before the expense of pet products and vet bills! It is vital to make sure you are ready for the commitment of a new puppy; they will require a lot of work and aren’t cheap, they are long term commitment and will require care, attention and a whole lot of love.

In short, investing in a Shih Tzu puppy is a serious commitment that shouldn’t be made lightly. So if you’re currently thinking about inviting a Shih Tzu into your life, we would highly suggest ensuring you have the finances to care for your puppy both now and in the future.
Shih Tzus are absolutely stunning dogs and can make wonderful canine companions. So whether you choose to purchase or search for rescue a Shih Tzu, our top suggestion would be to meet your dog in person before making a commitment one way or another. This way you can assess the Shih Tzu to verify their state of health and if there are any other concerns you’d need to address when inviting them into your home.

Remember, Shih Tzu’s require a high degree of grooming and care to ensure they remain in good condition. But being incredibly friendly and cheerful means they make fantastic companions. That’s why we love them so much at Potty Buddy.

The key takeaways about this breed are as follows:

Shih Tzus are very friendly and love spending time with humans
As they were originally bred as alert dogs, they do have a tendency to yap. But this can easily be trained out
Shih Tzus will need regular trimming to keep on top of fur growth
As natural born people pleasers this breed is highly receptive to training
This breed can be prone to certain health issues, such as: brachycephalic syndrome, dental problems, hip dysplasia, and patella luxation
The average cost of a Shih Tzu puppy can change and depends on where you choose to purchase your puppy from. You’ll also need to factor in costs such as their diet, grooming regime, any additional training and ongoing care

And that’s what you need to know about the Shih Tzu as a breed. If you’re considering inviting a Shih Tzu into your family, has this swung your opinion one way or the other?

If you’re still thinking it over, definitely take a look at our other dog breed profiles. You may stumble across a dog breed that you feel completely aligns with your lifestyle and values there.

Don’t forget that we’re also always here to help you with the initial potty training stage, when you do decide to invite a new puppy into your home. Or perhaps you decide to adopt a more senior dog. Either way, Potty Buddy is here to help keep your home clean and fresh.
Follow Us On
Check Out Our Most Popular Content
Dog Breeding for Beginners
An Introduction To Stud Dogs
How To Choose The Right Dog
How to Care For Newborn Puppies and Their Mother
--------------------------------------------------
