Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
Siberian Husky,  breed of working dog raised in Siberia by the Chukchi people, who valued it as a sled dog and companion. It was brought to Alaska in 1909 for sled dog races and soon became established as a consistent winner. In 1925 the breed gained widespread fame by saving Nome, Alaska, during a diphtheria epidemic; teams of Siberian Huskies battled blizzard conditions to relay life-saving serum over 674 miles (1,085 km) to the icebound city.
A graceful dog with erect ears and a dense soft coat, the Siberian Husky stands 20 to 24 inches (51 to 61 cm) tall at the withers and weighs 35 to 60 pounds (16 to 27 kg). It is usually gray, tan, or black and white, and it may have head markings resembling a cap, a mask, or spectacles. The breed, kept pure for hundreds of years in Siberia, is noted for its intelligence and a gentle temperament. It was recognized by the Fédération Cynologique Internationale (International Canine Federation) in 1966 as a member of the spitz and primitive types group (subgroup Nordic sledge dogs) and by the American Kennel Club in 1930 as a member of the working group.
As befits its long-distance sled racing heritage, the Siberian Husky is an active breed that needs at least one to two hours of exercise daily. Dog sledding, skijoring, bikejoring, or any activity involving pulling and running are especially well suited for the breed. Siberian Huskies are generally not great swimmers or retrievers. Exercise must be done on lead or in a safe area, as these dogs tend to roam and may not return when called. The breed can be extremely clever about escaping, so a secure yard is required. Siberians are known for damaging homes when not adequately exercised or when left alone for too long. Young dogs are prone to destruction and should be enclosed in a damage-proof area. The breed relishes cold weather and is prone to overheating in hot conditions.
The thick coat requires brushing weekly, daily (even twice daily) during shedding season. Because the breed is self-cleaning, baths are usually only needed several times a year.
The Siberian Husky is active, independent, mischievous, and playful. It gets along fairly well with other dogs and pets and is outgoing toward strangers. Because of their friendly nature, Siberians do not make good guard dogs. The breed enjoys people of all ages but is too independent and strong to be a good walking companion for children or the elderly. It tends to be strong-willed and is not an easy dog to train. While Siberians do not tend to bark much, they are far from quiet, emitting a wide variety of “woos,” chirps, and howls. It should be noted that these claims are traditional and widely accepted generalizations about the breed, and the behaviour of individual Siberians may differ.
This table provides statistics and other facts about the Siberian Husky.
--------------------------------------------------
Learn more about the Husky, which could make a perfect pet if you’re able to provide them everything they need

Life expectancy: 12-15 years
Size: 20-23.5-inches (male); 20-22 inches (female)
Coat: Thick double coat
Temperament: Gentle, alert, active, friendly, intelligent
Exercise needs: More than two hours a day
Origin/native country: Siberia
As the name suggests, Siberian Huskies hail from Siberia and they were developed first and foremost to work as sled dogs. It’s why they’re well built and strong, capable of working together in packs across snow in freezing conditions for many hours on end – they really are one of the breeds that thrive in cold climates. But their beautiful eyes and coats have also seen them become popular pets, helped enormously by their friendly and social nature.
Owning one, however, is not something to decide on a whim. As we will see in this guide, you really need to think long and hard about whether or not you’d be able to offer the right kind of home and environment for a demanding dog such as this. So let’s take a look at what you will be letting yourself in for and whether you should welcome one with the open arms they crave.
Look away if the mere thought of working up a sweat leaves you cold because Siberian Huskies are among the most active breeds. If you’re asking whether they need a lot of exercise then the answer is yes. Yes. Oh, and yes again.
But then, given a Siberian Husky is capable of running up to a 100 miles at an average speed of 10 miles an hour in the most freezing parts of the world, that is to be expected.
“This breed was designed for pulling sleds in tough, snowy conditions, so they are built for endurance,” expert vet Dr Rebecca MacMillan affirms. “This means they are athletes and an adult Husky needs at least two hours of activity each day.”
As such, you’re going to have to be an active owner who loves running, cycling or hiking and you should also have a securely fenced yard that would allow them to burn away energy off-lead.
You should also put a lot of thought into their exercise regime. It’s a good idea to mix up your routes so that they don’t become over-familiar to a Siberian Husky, helping to keep the breed inquisitive and alert. You should also look to mentally stimulate this breed using the best dog puzzle toys and perhaps consider agility classes.
Get the best advice, tips and top tech for your beloved Pets
Siberian Huskies have many positive attributes and one of them is their intelligence, but the jury’s out as to whether they’re one of the smartest dog breeds.
“Huskies are very smart, which means they need to keep their brains busy,” Dr MacMillan says.
Yet canine psychology expert Stanley Coren places Siberian Huskies in 45th place in his book “The Intelligence of Dogs” and that’s because two traits make them tricky to train.
“On paper, Huskies should be easy but their independent and stubborn streak can be a challenge,” Dr MacMillan says. It tends to take between 25 and 40 repetitions for this breed to understand a new command and they’ll only obey a first command half the time. Their natural prey instinct also means they can be highly distractible which makes training that bit more difficult.
To get them on board with what you’re trying to achieve, you’ll need plenty of positive reinforcement. It’s also important that you socialize this breed early.
You shouldn’t really leave a Siberian Husky alone even for a short period because they really suffer from separation anxiety. It means they’re going to best suit a family whose members tend to be around a lot – and a family who is able to give them the attention they need.
“They can make good family pets if they have had they have been properly socialized, and their exercise needs are met,” says Dr MacMillan. “Huskies are working dogs so need plenty of physical activity and mental stimulation to keep behavioral problems at bay. An unexercised dog is likely to become destructive, boisterous, or anxious.”
If they are properly socialized, you’ll find a Siberian Husky gets on really well with children but they’re not really recommended around small kids because of their strength and size. Children should also be taught how to behave around dogs and they should never be left unsupervised.

Siberian Huskies have a bite force of 320 pounds per inch (psi) so if they attack, then watch out – most dog breeds have a bite force of 200 psi so there is a potential to cause real damage here.
But the good news is that Huskies are softer than they look and while they may unnerve some people by howling a lot, they tend not to attack.
“Siberian Huskies are not naturally aggressive, but their large size and wolf-like appearance may be off-putting to many would-be intruders,” says Dr MacMillan. “However, if a trespasser got up close, they would find that most huskies are friendly, playful, and enjoy human company.”
It’s time to get one of the best vacuum cleaners for pet hair because you’re going to find fur everywhere.
“The Siberian Huskey is a very heavy-shedder and requires plenty of brushing to keep on top of their loose fur,” says Dr MacMillan. And that means you’ll have a job to do with this high-maintenance breed.
“You’ll need to brush two or three times a week for many Huskies but they could need more during a heavier ‘blowout’ that happens twice a year,” she adds. “This breed's thick double coat is designed for freezing conditions and is a characteristic feature of this breed. A high-quality balanced diet will help to keep their coat in the best condition.”
If you get a Siberian Husky then you must be prepared to devote a lot of time and attention to your dog. You’ll be doing this breed a great disservice if you’re out of the house a lot, can’t devote sufficient time to training and exercise, and don’t want the hassle of grooming.
You’ll also need a secure home and bags of patience and understanding. It’s a big ask of anyone but you have to understand the breed’s origins and take into account that they, ultimately, are considered to be working dogs.
If you are able to indulge this breed in the way they need, however, then you’ll be richly rewarded. A Siberian Husky will fit right into a bustling household and be perfect for families which enjoy adventures and outdoor pursuits. They form incredibly loyal bonds with their families and they can be an utter joy to be around.
Want to learn more about this breed? Here are 32 reasons to love Siberian Huskies
Complete Guide To Siberian Huskies | Amazon
Using interviews with 10 top Siberian Husky breeders, this book has created an in-depth look at what it really takes to successfully live with, raise, and train a Siberian Husky.
Rebecca is a veterinary surgeon who graduated in 2009 from the Royal Veterinary College in London. She has a wealth of experience in first opinion small animal practice, having done a mixture of day-to-day routine work, on-call emergency duties and managerial roles over the years. Rebecca enjoys medicine in particular and she is proud to have recently achieved a BSAVA postgraduate certificate in small animal medicine (with commendation).
She writes on various feline and canine topics, including behavior, nutrition, and health. Outside of work and writing she enjoys walking her own dog, spending time with her young family and baking!
Edited by Georgia Guerin.
This feature was last updated on March 3, 2025.
David Crookes has been a journalist for more than 20 years and he has written for a host of magazines, newspapers, websites and books including World of Animals, BBC Earth, Dogs and Canines, Gadget and The Independent. Born in England, he lives in a household with two cats but he’s also keenly interested in the differences between the huge number of dog breeds — in fact, you can read many of his breed guides here on PetsRadar. With a lifelong passion for technology, too, he’s always on the lookout for useful devices that will allow people to spend more time with their pets.
Staffordshire Bull Terrier: This ‘eager to please but excitable’ breed makes for a ‘lovely family dog’
Bull Terriers have a unique ‘Marmite’ look but they can be energetic, playful pets
12 things you should know about having a baby when you’ve already got a dog
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Edalin Photography, Shutterstock
Last Updated on March 13, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Known for their stunning high-contrast coats, compact build, and often ice-blue eyes, it’s no wonder that the Siberian Husky is a popular breed. These dogs gained popularity as real-life heroes and on-screen legends, including famous characters like Togo, Balto, and the dire wolves of “Game of Thrones.”
Their wolf-like look and friendly personality make them attractive to many owners, but the Husky is a unique breed and requires an owner who understands how to meet their needs. Here’s everything you need to know about making the Siberian Husky a part of your family.
Height:
20–23 inches
Weight:
35–60 pounds
Lifespan:
12–14 years
Colors:
Black, white, black and white, gray and white, red and white, sable and white, brown and white, black, tan, and white, agouti and white
Suitable for:
Active families, attentive owners, experienced owners, canine competitors
Temperament:
Active, energetic, friendly, gentle, stubborn, independent
The Siberian Husky is a stunning example of a northern working breed with a compact, athletic body, a thick double coat, erect ears, and a fluffy, sickle-shaped tail. Originating in northeastern Asia by the native Chukchi people, Huskies were first bred as companion dogs but became sled dogs when the semi-nomadic people had to expand their hunting grounds.

Due to their isolation in the northernmost parts of the world, Siberian Huskies had pure bloodlines for many generations before the dogs became popular as sled dogs and later, family pets. As demand rose, backyard breeders began producing Huskies for profit and crossing them with other breeds. Like any popular breed, the abundance of breeding introduced dogs with behavioral or health problems.
If you choose to get a Siberian Husky puppy from a breeder, do your homework. It’s crucial to work with a breeder who prioritizes breed standards for health and temperament over looks or “designer” puppies to ensure that you have a healthy and happy pup.
Huskies can be a handful, especially as puppies. They’re independent, somewhat stubborn, and energetic, so they need plenty of exercise and mental stimulation to avoid boredom and destructive behaviors. Because of this, these dogs often come up in shelters and rescues and for private rehoming.

Though they were purpose-bred and limited to the harsh environment of the Siberian Arctic, the Husky is remarkably adaptable. They can live in different climates and both rural and urban environments if their needs are met. They’re also pack dogs that thrive on being part of the family, including living with other dogs, and should never be left alone. The high energy, impulsivity, and independence of the Siberian Husky can be challenging for some owners without proper outlets.
Unlike some of the aloof northern breeds, Huskies were raised as part of the family by the Chukchi people instead of being left to fend for themselves. They get along well with the entire family, including children, as long as their needs are met. However, these are athletic, powerful, and energetic dogs that can easily injure children unintentionally. Always supervise interactions to ensure that both the dog and the child are safe.
Siberian Huskies were developed to run as part of a pack of sled dogs, so they usually get along well with other dogs. However, Huskies have an extremely high prey drive from hunting in packs and preying on wild cats, birds, and small mammals. It’s best to train and monitor Huskies around small dogs and cats and never leave them unattended. They should never be allowed to interact with small pets like birds or hamsters.

Huskies can be excellent pets for the right home, but they have unique needs that must be met.
Siberian Huskies require a high-quality commercial diet to keep up with their energy demands, especially for working dogs, and maintain a healthy coat and skin. If you keep an active sled dog, they require a higher level of protein than the average Husky. However, it’s important not to overfeed a Husky and allow them to become overweight, which can contribute to health problems. Consult with your vet if you have any concerns about your dog’s body condition or diet.
💛 🐶 Speak To a Vet Online From the Comfort of Your Couch!
If you need to speak with a vet but can’t get to one, head over to PangoVet. It’s an online service where you can talk to a vet online and get the personalized advice you need for your pet — all at an affordable price!
Click to Speak With a Vet
Siberian Huskies are extremely active and athletic dogs that require a lot of exercise to stay engaged. As a working breed, a Husky enjoys having a job to do. Without adequate exercise, they can develop problem behaviors like roaming, chewing, or nuisance barking. They can excel at canine sports like rally, obedience, and agility.
Early socialization is important for Huskies, especially if you want to minimize the prey drive. These dogs can be impulsive, independent, and inattentive, so firm, consistent training using positive reinforcement methods is crucial. If you want to train your dog as a sled dog, know that it requires many hours of patience and dedication.
Like cats, Huskies try to keep themselves clean. Unless they’re active working dogs, they only need a few baths a year and weekly brushing to remove loose undercoats and keep the coat and skin healthy. Siberian Huskies will shed seasonally and may require more extensive grooming during this time to remove shed hair. A pet cologne is a good alternative to keeping them fresh in between standard baths. You should also trim your dog’s nails, clean their ears, and brush their teeth as needed.
The Husky is a relatively healthy breed, especially when they come from diligent breeders who screen their parent dogs. Most of the health issues that are common in Huskies are genetic, such as seizures, and eye problems like glaucoma and progressive retinal atrophy. Sled dogs may be prone to gastric diseases, bronchitis, or bronchopulmonary ailments like “ski asthma” from low-oxygen conditions.
There’s little difference between male and female Huskies. Males may be slightly larger, while females may be more slender and graceful. Owners say that female Huskies are more loyal and males are harder to train, but this has more to do with the individual dogs than sex differences. Spaying and neutering are important for Huskies to minimize problem behaviors like roaming or aggression, as well as reproductive health problems.

Siberian Huskies gained worldwide popularity after residents of Nome, Alaska, came down with a life-threatening diphtheria epidemic, and Husky sled dogs were the only way to deliver life-saving medication. These dogs also served in the Army’s Arctic Search & Rescue Unit of the Air Transport Command during WWII and in the Byrd Antarctic expeditions.
One of the heroes of the Alaska Diphtheria Serum Run was Togo, the lead dog from the team of Leonhard Seppala, who imported stock in the 1930s. Few foundational dogs are in the Husky lineage, making the breed vulnerable to genetic health conditions due to limited genetic diversity.
Few dog breeds have the reputation for being “escape artists” as much as the Husky. Bred to be loyal but independent, these dogs find creative and athletic ways to escape and explore, including digging under fences, chewing through them, or even climbing or jumping over fences. With their impulsivity around prey, Huskies are not well contained by electric perimeter fencing.

There’s a lot to love about Siberian Huskies, from their work ethic and beautiful coats to their friendly and mischievous expressions. However, these dogs aren’t for casual owners, as they need regular exercise, mental stimulation, and consistent training to stay happy and healthy.
Featured Image Credit: Edalin Photograhy, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Nicole has loved animals of all sizes her whole life so it's no wonder she has dedicated her career to helping them through what she loves best: learning, writing, and sharing knowledge with others. She’s the proud mom of two dogs, a cat, and a human. With a degree in Education and 15+ years of writing experience, Nicole wants to help pet parents and pets around the planet to live happy, safe, and healthy lives.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The Siberian cat is a breed of domestic cat that was arguably developed to look like a miniature version of a Siberian husky.
These cats have thick, luxurious fur coats that can come in a variety of colors and patterns, and they are known for being very affectionate and friendly pets.
While they may not be able to go on hikes with you like a true husky, Siberian cats make wonderful companions that will bring a lot of joy to your life.
The Siberian cat is a relatively new breed that was developed in the late 1980s in Russia although some historians believe this cat was around as early as the year 1000.
Nonetheless, the first documented Siberian cat was born in 1986, and the breed was officially recognized by the Russian Cat Fanciers Association in 1987.
The Siberian cat is thought to be a cross between the native Russian blue cat and the Siamese cat.
The goal of the breeders was to create a cat that had the blue coloration of the Russian blue and the long, thick coat of the Siamese.
The Siberian cat quickly gained popularity in Russia and eventually made its way to the United States in the early 1990s.
The first Siberian cats were imported to America in 1990, and the breed was recognized by the International Cat Association (TICA) in 1991.
One of the most striking things about the Siberian cat is its thick, luxurious coat.
The coat is double-layered, with a downy undercoat and a longer outer coat that can be either straight or wavy. The fur is very dense, which helps to keep the cat warm in its native Russia.
The coat comes in a wide variety of colors and patterns, including black, blue, brown, cream, gold, green, orange, red, silver, white, and tortoiseshell.
The most common pattern is the mackerel tabby, which has stripes running down the length of the body.
The Siberian cat is a medium to large size cat, with males typically weighing between 10 and 20 pounds and females usually being 8 to 12 pounds.
They are muscular cats with long legs, large paws, and a thick tail that is often carried low.
Related Post: How Big Do Siberian Cats Get?
Siberian cats are known for being very affectionate and loving pets. They are also very playful and active, and they enjoy climbing and jumping.
They are intelligent cats that can be easily trained to perform tricks or walk on a leash.
While they are not as vocal as some other cat breeds, Siberians will still meow and chirp when they want your attention.
They are also known for being very good with children and getting along well with other pets.
Related Post: Are Siberian Cats Friendly?
Siberian cats make wonderful companions for those who are looking for an affectionate and loving pet.
They are also relatively easy to care for, as long as you are willing to put in the time to brush their coat regularly.
If you are looking for a beautiful cat that resembles a husky, the Siberian is right up your alley!
Related Posts:
Cat That Looks Like a Bat
Cat That Looks Like a Panther
Do Canadian Marble Cats Or Canadian Husky Cats Exist?
Hi! I am Eleanor Price. I started this website after my cat, Louie, almost died from a case of botulism (a type of food poisoning often caused by bacteria that grow on food items). Turned out that my cat’s diet was the problem. I have made it my duty to provide the best information and recommendations about everything cat lovers need to know about their felines’ health and wellbeing. My goal is to find the most informative content on anything feline-related and share it with fellow hardworking kitty lovers.
--------------------------------------------------
The Siberian Husky is a medium-sized working breed that was first bred to pull sleds across long distances in the snowy terrain of present-day Siberia. With a beautiful, thick coat that comes in many colors and markings, Siberian Huskies are often immediately recognizable. Their blue or multi-colored eyes and striking facial masks only add to the appeal of this breed, a member of the Spitz family. It is easy to see why many are drawn to the Siberian’s wolf-like looks. It’s also important to mention this athletic, intelligent breed can act independently and challenge first-time dog parents. Sadly, many of these dogs end up in shelters because they can require more patience and care than some are willing to give.
Huskies also put the “H” in Houdini and need a yard with a high fence that goes all the way into the ground to prevent escapes. Some are even known to climb directly over or tunnel under fences, so be sure your fence is escape-proof! Giving your Husky enough exercise may prove easier said than done, though it’ll reduce boredom and unwanted behaviors like digging or chewing. Siberian Huskies are pack animals, so they need to be part of a family or group. The Siberian Husky temperament is playful, mischievous, independent, and curious. They are also very social and love to be around people. Their incredible intelligence and independence may make training a challenge, however. Remember that patience is a virtue, especially with this breed!
When considering a Siberian Husky, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a dog in need. However, if you’re searching for Siberian Husky puppies, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their dogs. Reputable Siberian Husky breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their dogs, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the puppies. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy pup while discouraging unethical breeding practices.

Looking for the best dog for your apartment? Contrary to popular belief, the suitability of dogs who adapt well to apartment living goes beyond its size. Apartment dwellers have a myriad of dog breeds to choose from as potential companions, with various factors to consider. Some large breeds can adapt well to apartment living and have lower activity levels. Others may require more space and possess higher energy levels. On the other hand, certain small dog breeds with abundant energy can still find contentment with indoor playtime or brisk walks.


However, when selecting a dog that adapts well to apartments, it is essential to prioritize your neighbors. Opting for a pet that doesn’t excessively bark and behaves politely when encountering others in shared spaces is crucial. In apartment settings, it’s worth noting that numerous small dogs may exhibit a propensity for high energy and frequent barking. This can make them less suitable for apartment living. Rather than size alone, you’ll want to think about breeds who are quiet, low-energy, and sociable towards other residents.




Regardless of your pup’s inherent suitability to apartment living, you will want to invest in additional training to help them be their best selves. Training dogs not inherently suited to apartment living requires extra patience and consistency. Start by establishing clear boundaries and rules within your apartment to create a structured routine for your dog. Focus on basic obedience commands such as “sit”, “stay”, “come”, and “leave it”. Barking-related training commands including “hush” or “quiet” are also crucial. This training is essential for managing your dog’s behavior both indoors and outdoors.


Since space may be limited, prioritize leash training to ensure your dog walks calmly and obediently, especially in communal areas. Crate training can also help your dog feel safe and secure while you’re away from your apartment. This may help your pup avoid anxiety, which could lead to barking habits.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

When considering adding a dog to your home, it’s important to acknowledge that some dog breeds may present less of a challenge in terms of training and temperament. These dogs tend to be more adaptable, responsive to training, and resilient, readily overcoming any training hiccups or inconsistencies. As one might expect, these breeds may be good for novice dog owners.


Conversely, certain dogs may pose greater difficulties, particularly for first-time owners. Factors such as heightened sensitivity, independence, energy levels, or assertiveness can contribute to a more demanding ownership experience. Novice dog owners should assess their level of experience and comfort when selecting a new pet, ensuring compatibility with their lifestyle and capabilities for a mutually rewarding relationship.






For first-time or novice dog owners, pet ownership can be both exciting and daunting. As a bit of advice, research breeds thoroughly before bringing a dog home. Each breed has their unique traits, energy levels, and care requirements. Consider factors such as size, exercise needs, grooming demands, and temperament to find a breed that aligns with your lifestyle and preferences.


Prioritizing training and socialization at an early age is essential. You may want a breed who is more easy to train or perhaps possesses a lower energy level. Establishing clear boundaries and expectations early on lays the foundation for a well-behaved and well-adjusted dog. Basic obedience training such as teaching commands like sit, stay, and come, is crucial for effective communication and building a strong bond with your new best friend. Additionally, exposing your dog to various environments, people, and other animals helps prevent behavioral issues and promotes confidence and adaptability. Consistent care, patience, and love are key ingredients for a fulfilling and rewarding relationship with your dog.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Sensitivity levels in dogs vary widely among breeds and individuals. This trait can be determined by how a dog responds to their environment. While some dogs remain unfazed by stern reprimands or surrounding stimuli, others are more sensitive. Even the slightest disapproving glance or the sound of a passing car can affect a sensitive dog. Dogs with a low sensitivity level, also known as “easygoing,” “tolerant,” “resilient,” or “thick-skinned,” are better equipped to handle a bustling household, assertive owners, and unpredictable routines. If you have young children, frequently host social gatherings, engage in noisy activities like playing in a band, or live a busy, unpredictable life, a low sensitivity level dog may be the ideal choice for you.


Highly sensitive dogs are wired differently, with research indicating that their brains process sensory input more deeply. Evolutionarily speaking, scientists theorize high sensitivity levels could aid in survival by functioning as an early warning system, alerting the pack imminent danger. Sensitivity in dogs also includes how they interact with humans and other animals. Some dogs are naturally more sensitive, quickly picking up on subtle cues and changes in their surroundings. Others are more resilient and are able to brush off minor disturbances. Factors such as genetics, early socialization, and life experiences can all contribute to a dog’s sensitivity levels. Highly sensitive dogs may react strongly to loud noises, sudden movements, or changes in routine, while less sensitive dogs may remain calm and composed in similar situations. Being “highly-sensitive” doesn’t always only mean “highly anxious”. Highly-sensitive dogs may also be more empathetic, more affectionate, or serve as better guardians.









Helping highly sensitive dogs involves creating a calm environment, establishing predictable routines, and using positive reinforcement training techniques. Gradually expose them to new experiences while providing mental stimulation and regular exercise to reduce anxiety and boredom. Monitor their diet and health, offering emotional support and reassurance to help them feel secure and valued.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds bond very closely with their family and are more prone to worry or even panic when left alone by their owner. An anxious dog can be very destructive–barking, whining, chewing, and otherwise causing mayhem. These breeds do best when a family member is home during the day or if you can take the dog to work. On the other hand, some breeds are instinctually more independent and easily tolerates being alone.


It’s essential to remember that individual dogs’ tolerance for being alone can vary greatly, depending on factors such as age, temperament, and training. Providing appropriate mental stimulation, toys, and a comfortable environment can help alleviate any potential distress when leaving these breeds alone.









When leaving your dog home alone, it’s essential to create a calm and comfortable environment for them. Even if your dog tolerates being alone, always make sure they have access to their favorite toys, bedding, and water. Consider leaving on soothing background noise, such as calming music or a white noise machine, to help drown out any outside sounds and provide a sense of security.


Before leaving, give your pup an energetic play session or walk to tire them out and alleviate any pent-up energy. Avoid making a big fuss when you leave or return to prevent reinforcing separation anxiety. Additionally, consider providing a special treat or puzzle toy to keep your dog occupied while you’re away, helping to distract them and make their alone time more enjoyable. You may also want to gradually increase the duration of your absences over time.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Several dog breeds are naturally equipped to tolerate cold weather and climates, thanks to their thick coats, sturdy builds, and unique adaptations. Some breeds from snowy climates and mountainous regions may immediately come to mind, like the Siberian Husky, Alaskan Malamute, and Bernese Mountain Dog. Renowned for their cold tolerance and ability to excel in snowy environments, these cold-weather breeds not only tolerate freezing temperatures but may be happiest in the chill. Thanks to dense double coats that provide excellent insulation against the cold, they have no trouble adapting when the temperatures drop.


Additionally, these dogs may have a higher body fat percentage have a built-in layer of insulation that helps retain body heat in cold weather. Physical attributes also play a role in cold tolerance, enabling dogs to navigate snowy or icy terrain with ease. Certain breeds may have specialized adaptations, such as furry feet for traction on slippery surfaces or water-resistant coats for protection against moisture and wind chill. Moreover, a dog’s natural instincts, such as seeking shelter or burrowing in the snow for warmth, can further enhance their ability to tolerate cold weather.










Click here for more information on this characteristic

Unlike cold-weather breeds and brachycephalic dogs, certain dog breeds are well-adapted to warmer climate and tolerate hot weather with relative ease. Breeds such as the Chihuahua, Dalmatian, and Basenji have short coats and lean body structures that facilitate heat dissipation, allowing them to stay comfortable in warmer weather. Their minimal fur reduces the risk of overheating, and their efficient panting mechanisms help regulate their body temperature effectively. These breeds often enjoy basking in the sun and participating in outdoor activities even during hot days, although owners should still ensure they have access to shade and water to prevent dehydration.


Moreover, some breeds have evolved in regions with hot climates, equipping them with natural adaptations to thrive in warm weather conditions. These breeds have developed unique features such as hairless or short coats, as well as physiological traits that aid in heat tolerance. Their ability to cope with high temperatures makes them suitable companions for owners living in warm climates, although proper care and attention to hydration and sun protection are still essential to ensure their well-being during hot weather.









Even if your dog tolerates hot weather, it’s still important to prioritize safety. You can check out guidelines on assessing if the weather is too hot for your dog. Ensure your dog always has access to fresh water, provide shaded areas in your yard or outdoor space, and schedule outdoor activities during cooler times of the day to prevent overheating. Never leave your dog in a parked car, monitor for signs of heat exhaustion, and protect their paws from hot pavement. Consider using pet-safe sunscreen on exposed skin areas and seek veterinary assistance if symptoms persist.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

When it comes to unconditional love and unwavering loyalty, few animals can rival the affectionate nature of dogs. These remarkable creatures have earned their reputation as man’s best friend, and it’s no wonder! Many breeds are particularly renowned for their love and devotion to their families. With their warm hearts and wagging tails, affectionate family dogs enrich the lives of their owners in countless ways.


While we like to think that all dogs are creatures of love, some breeds may be more outwardly affectionate than others. Some of this is due to temperament, breed group, and purpose. For example, dogs first bred for working or guarding independently of their human companions may show less affection than dogs specifically bred to be companion animals. Of course, this is no indication of the bond between a human and pup, but rather related to temperament and breed origin.


Affection may be demonstrated through a myriad of heartwarming behaviors. This may including tail-wagging greetings, cuddles on the couch, and an ever-present eagerness to be by their family’s side. This devotion extends to both adults and children, making dogs wonderful additions to family households. The warmth of a dog’s affection not only provides emotional support but also creates an environment of joy and connection within the family, fostering a sense of togetherness.




The affectionate nature of family dogs extends beyond play and cuddles. Dogs have a remarkable ability to sense their owner’s emotions, offering comfort and support during difficult times. Whether it’s a wagging tail after a long day at work or a sympathetic nuzzle during moments of sadness, they prove time and again that they are attuned to their family’s needs.


It is important to note that not all dogs of the same breed will be equally affectionate. Some dogs may be more independent or aloof, while others may be more clingy or demanding of attention. The best way to find out how affectionate a dog is is to meet them in person and interact with them.


See Dogs Less Affectionate with Family

Click here for more information on this characteristic

If you’re looking for a pup to join your household, you may first want to consider the most kid-friendly dog breeds. A gentle nature, patience, and the sturdiness to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs children can dish out can be some of the most kid-friendly dog-defining traits. Of course, a pup with a blasé attitude toward running and screaming children would be a bonus.


At first glance, you may be surprised by the most kid-friendly dogs. Fierce-looking Boxers are considered good with children, as are American Staffordshire Terriers, an affectionate Pit Bull breed. Small, delicate, and potentially snappy dogs such as Chihuahuas aren’t always so family-friendly.


It’s important to note all dogs are individuals. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual dog will behave. Dogs from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences. Additionally, training plays a big role in how dogs will get along with kids. No matter what the breed or breed type, all dogs have strong jaws,  pointy teeth, and may bite under stressful circumstances or mishandling. Young children and dogs of any breed should always be supervised by an adult and never left alone without supervision.






Determining if a dog is kid-friendly involves assessing various aspects of their temperament, behavior, and breed characteristics. A kid-friendly dog should display a gentle and calm demeanor, showing an ability to handle the unpredictable behaviors and noises associated with children. Additionally, behavioral signals like wagging tails and a relaxed body language often indicates a positive interaction with kids.


Breed tendencies also play a role in gauging kid-friendliness. Some breeds are inherently more predisposed to be good with children. It’s essential to consider the dog’s personality, socialization history, and any signs of anxiety or discomfort. A well-socialized dog that has positive experiences with children is more likely to be kid-friendly, regardless of their breed. Conducting meet-and-greet sessions under controlled circumstances and observing the dog’s reactions to children’s actions can provide valuable insights into their suitability for family life.


See Dogs Who Are Not Kid Friendly

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Friendliness toward dogs and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some dogs may intimidate other dogs, even if they’re love-bugs with people; others are naturally more dog friend and would rather play than fight. It’s important to note that breed isn’t the only factor when it comes to how dog-friendly your pup will be. Sure, some dogs breeds first bred for working independently may not immediately gravitate towards other dogs, but early socialization plays a lot more into how dogs will interact than their origin.  Dogs who lived with their littermates and mother until at least six to eight weeks of age or who spent lots of time playing with other dogs during puppyhood are more likely to have good canine social skills.


Still, some dog-friendly breeds are more pack-oriented and naturally thrive with other dogs. Dogs with this trait typically exhibit an innate ability to get along well with other pups. Dogs with this trait may be more eager to greet new dogs, display more social behavior at places like dog parks, or more confidently allow intimate sniffs from their canine acquaintances. This quality extends beyond mere tolerance and often manifests as a genuine enjoyment of the company of fellow canines, making these dogs ideal companions for those looking to build a multi-dog household. Additionally, they’ll pair well with pet parents hoping to take their pooch on social adventures, such as going to dog park or hanging out on dog-friendly patios.






While some dog breeds are more naturally inclined to make friends with other dogs, you may choose a puppy or adult dog that needs a little help. It’s may be common knowledge that there is a small window during a puppy’s early development when they are the most adaptable in terms of how they’ll interact with other dogs. You may, however, bring home an adult dog or a rescue and not get the opportunity. Not to fear! There are still many ways to help your pooch become dog-friendly.


Socialization is always the best way to ensure your dog becomes their most friendly self. You can help by exposing your pooch to as many sights, sounds, and environments as possible. Set up doggy playdates, enroll in dog training classes, or visit the dog park. Of course, be sure to do your research on dog training methods to ensure your dog will listen to you in social settings. Confidence is key!




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Stranger-friendly dogs will greet guests with wagging tails and nuzzles; others are shy, indifferent, or even reserved. However, no matter what the breed, a dog who was socialized and exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a puppy will respond better to strangers as an adult. Remember that even friendly dogs should stay on a good, strong leash in public.


However, it’s worth noting that certain breeds might initially appear more reserved or aloof when encountering new people. Some individuals appreciate this quality, as not everyone seeks a highly sociable canine companion. There is a preference for the calm and composed personalities exhibited by specific breeds. It’s essential to recognize that not all breeds necessarily need to be inherently friendly with strangers; however, it is crucial that your pup is not aggressive or reactive in such situations.






While some dog breeds are more naturally inclined to make friends with strangers, you may choose a puppy or adult dog that needs a little help. It’s may be common knowledge that there is a small window during a puppy’s early development when they are the most adaptable in terms of how they’ll interact with humans. You may, however, bring home an adult dog or a rescue and not get the opportunity. Not to fear! There are still many ways to help your pooch become stranger-friendly.


Socialization is always the best way to ensure your dog becomes their most friendly self. You can help by exposing your pooch to as many sights, sounds, and environments as possible. Set up doggy playdates, enroll in dog training classes, or visit the dog park. Of course, be sure to do your research on dog training methods to ensure your dog will listen to you in social settings. Confidence is key!




Click here for more information on this characteristic

When considering adding a pup into your home, you may want to consider the amount of shedding your furry companion will experience. Regardless of the dog breed, you will want to be prepared for at least some amount of pet hair on your clothing and around your house. Of course, this amount can vary greatly as shedding tendencies differ significantly among breeds. Some dogs shed continuously, especially dog breeds with heavy double-coats or long fur. Others undergo seasonal “blowouts” and some hardly shed at all.


Having a set of grooming tools at your disposal is essential for tending to your dog’s coat. Deshedding tools are excellent for eliminating excess hair that can become trapped in your dog’s fur. There are also brushes designed to gently remove dead hair without causing discomfort to your dog’s skin. Grooming gloves and bathing brushes can aid in loosening dead hair during shampooing, making it easier to brush away. Clippers and a detangling spray effectively tackle matted fur. Additionally, home tools for managing pet hair on fabric and furniture can make a big difference. Pet tape rollers, fur brooms, and specialized vacuums can eliminate pet hair from carpet, clothing, and even furniture.


If you’re someone who values a spotless environment, you might want to opt for a low-shedding breed. Otherwise, equip yourself with the right tools to fight the fur. Concerns about shedding shouldn’t prevent you from relishing your time at home with your dog. Establishing a consistent grooming regimen can significantly minimize the presence of loose hair in your living space and on your clothing. For additional guidance on managing dog shedding, explore our recommendations for addressing excessive shedding and designing your home with your pet (and their shedding tendencies) in mind.


Related:


How to Effectively Deal with Dog Shedding


4 Best Dog Brushes

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Often referred to as “heavy droolers,” some slobbery dog breeds are known for their drooling potential. This trait is more prevalent in certain breeds with loose, jowly skin. A few breeds that may come to mind when thinking about dog drool are Saint Bernards, Bloodhounds, and Mastiffs. Drooling is a natural behavior influenced by factors like genetics, breed characteristics, and individual anatomy. Even among breeds with a higher drooling potential, some dogs may drool very little while others may drool a lot.


While some dogs may only drool more during specific activities like eating or in anticipation of food, others may be consistent heavy droolers due to their inherent physiological makeup. Living with a dog that drools requires a degree of acceptance and proactive management. Pet owners of drooling breeds often keep absorbent towels or bandanas on hand to wipe away excess saliva. This may be particularly necessary after meals or playtime. Regular dental care can also contribute to reduce excessive drooling by addressing potential oral health issues. Despite the occasional mess, many pet owners of drooling dogs appreciate their unique charm.


Drool-prone dogs may drape ropes of slobber on your arm and leave big, wet spots on your clothes when they come over to say hello. If you’ve got a laid-back attitude toward slobber, fine; but if you’re not a fan of the extra slime, you may want to choose a dog who rates low in the drool department.






Owners with slobbery dog breeds should establish a baseline for their dog’s normal drooling levels. There may be instances where excessive drooling indicates an underlying issue rather than typical breed behavior. Excessive drooling in dogs can serve as an indicator of potential underlying issues. Various factors, such as stress, high temperatures, dental problems, allergic reactions, or nausea, may contribute to increased drooling. If your dog usually isn’t very slobbery or if additional concerning symptoms accompany sudden and pronounced drooling, it is advisable to consult with a veterinarian. Keeping track of what is typical for your dog allows you to quickly identify deviations from the norm and address potential health concerns or discomfort.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds are brush-and-go dogs; others require regular bathing, clipping, and other grooming just to stay clean and healthy. Easy-to-groom dogs are a smart choice for pet owners looking for a low-maintenance companion. Breeds with short coats or those that shed minimally often fall into the category of easy-to-groom dogs. Of course there are exceptions to this statement. For example, allergy-friendly, low-shedding Poodles or Poodle Mixes like the Labradoodle or Bernedoodle require frequent grooming. Low-maintenance dog breeds require less frequent brushing sessions. These pups may be more convenient for individuals with busy schedules or those looking for a hassle-free pet care routine.


Owners of low-maintenance dogs also enjoy the benefit of reduced grooming-related expenses. Because these breeds typically don’t require professional services, these low-maintenance breeds end up being more budget-friendly. Common examples of easy-to-groom breeds include Beagles, Labrador Retrievers, and Dachshunds. While regular grooming remains essential for all dogs, the easy-to-groom breeds offer a practical option for pet parents seeking a dog without the added demands of intricate care routines. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a dog who needs a lot of grooming. Alternatively, you may want to consider the budget required to pay someone else to do it.






Beyond the usual brushing, clipping, and trimming needs, some breeds require additional grooming for their unique needs. Breeds such as Pugs and Shar-Peis have loose skin and wrinkles that require extra vigilance during bathing.


First, to prevent grime and even bacteria from becoming a problem, clean between the folds of their skin with damp cotton and then dry well. Keeping these areas dry is also important after a bath or a walk in the rain. Long, droopy-eared pups like the Basset Hound or Cocker Spaniel must be checked weekly for buildups of wax and dirt. A cotton wad with a little water or mineral oil can help keep the ears clean and dry. Drops specifically designed to clean and dry the canal should also be applied for these ear infection-prone dogs. Hair that grows around the canal entrance should be kept trimmed. You can check with a professional groomer or veterinarian for instructions on how to properly and safely do this. Special tools may be available for this unique task.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

While most dogs experience good general health, some breeds may be prone to specific health issues. Conditions like hip dysplasia, cancer, or heart conditions can result from poor breeding practices or genetic dispositions. However, it’s important to note that not every dog of a particular breed will necessarily develop these diseases. Rather, they only face an elevated risk compared to other breeds.


When considering adding a dog or puppy to your home, it’s advisable to research the prevalent genetic illnesses associated with the breed you’re interested in adopting. Additionally, it can be beneficial to inquire whether your chosen shelter or rescue organization possesses information regarding the physical health of the potential pup’s parents and other relatives. This knowledge can aid in understanding potential health risks and ensuring the best possible start for your new furry family member.









The CHIC (Canine Health Information Center), a program created by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA), provides a centralized database for canine health information, particularly focusing on orthopedic and genetic conditions. Despite robust general health, they recommend several health screenings for breeds due to potential predispositions to certain conditions. After screening, the CHIC assigns a number to a dog’s test results. It doesn’t indicate normal results, just that all necessary tests were done and results made available. A CHIC report accompanies the number, detailing the tests, the dog’s age during testing, and the results.


The CHIC program adjusts its requirements based on evolving breed health concerns. Existing CHIC numbers aren’t affected if requirements change. This number is also displayed on AKC documents, including Certified Pedigrees, Registration Applications, and Registration Certificates. This record signifies to potential puppy parents and breed enthusiasts that recommended tests have been completed. Although the CHIC database only includes purebred dogs, you can look up a hybrid breed’s parent breeds for potential health considerations.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Certain dog breeds have a predisposition towards hearty appetites. As a result, they may also be prone to weight gain, similar to humans. Just like in people, obesity in dogs can lead to various health issues. If you opt for a breed prone to packing on pounds, it’s essential to implement strategies to manage their weight effectively. This includes limiting treats, ensuring they receive sufficient exercise, and regulating their daily food intake by serving measured meals instead of leaving food accessible all day.


Consulting with your veterinarian about your dog’s diet is crucial. They can provide valuable insights and recommendations tailored to your pet’s specific needs to help maintain a healthy weight. Weight gain not only poses direct health risks but can also exacerbate existing conditions such as arthritis, leading to further complications if left unchecked. Thus, proactive management of your dog’s weight is integral to their overall well-being and longevity.






To help your dog manage weight gain, start by consulting with your veterinarian to develop a safe and effective weight loss plan tailored to your pet’s individual needs. This may involve adjusting their diet to a lower calorie option or a specialized weight management formula. It may also include measuring their food portions to control calorie intake, and reducing the frequency of treats. Additionally, increasing their physical activity through regular exercise is essential for burning calories and promoting weight loss.


Identifying whether your dog is overweight involves assessing their body condition and observing for signs of excess weight. You can perform a simple visual and tactile evaluation by feeling their ribs and observing their waistline. In a healthy weight dog, you should be able to feel their ribs easily with a slight covering of fat. They should have a noticeable waist when viewed from above. If your dog is overweight, you may observe visible signs such as a lack of a defined waist, a rounded or bulging abdomen, difficulty moving or breathing, or reduced energy levels.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Get ready to meet the giants of the doggy world! Large dog breeds aren’t just big balls of fluff, they’re like loving, oversized teddy bears on a mission to steal your heart. Need some convincing? Let’s dive into the awesome benefits of owning one!


First things first, these pooches are a living security system! With their impressive size and thunderous barks, they’ll have any would-be intruder running for the hills. Talk about peace of mind! Plus, who needs an alarm when you’ve got a furry giant protecting your castle?


But that’s not all. Large dog breeds are all about loyalty and devotion. They’ll stick by your side through thick and thin, becoming your most dedicated bestie. Their love knows no bounds! When you have a giant fluffball showing you unconditional love, you’ll feel like the luckiest human on the planet.


Now, let’s talk about their talents. These big fellas are the ultimate working partners. With brains and brawn, they’re up for any challenge. From search and rescue missions to lending a helping paw to those in need, these dogs are superheroes in fur coats. They’ll make you proud every step of the way!


Don’t let their size fool you—these gentle giants have hearts as big as their paws. They’re incredible with kids and other pets, spreading their love like confetti. Their patience and kindness make them perfect family pets, ensuring harmony in your household.


Oh, and get ready to break a sweat! These dogs are fitness enthusiasts, and they’ll keep you on your toes. Daily walks, jogs, and play sessions will not only keep them happy and healthy but will also give you a reason to ditch the couch and join in on the fun. It’s a win-win situation!


So, if you’re ready for a dose of big love, go ahead and consider a large dog breed. They’re the best wing-dog you could ever ask for, ready to make your life a thousand times more exciting, loving, and downright awesome! Get ready for the big adventure of a lifetime!






Click here for more information on this characteristic

Easy-to-train dogs have an innate ability to quickly understand the relationships between prompts, actions, and rewards. For example, when told to “sit,” easy-to-train dogs quickly associate the command with the action of sitting, knowing that compliance results in a positive outcome, such as receiving a treat. This ability to learn quickly makes training easier and more enjoyable for both the dog and the owner. On the contrary, some dogs may need more time, patience, and consistent repetition to form these associations, emphasizing the importance of tailoring training methods to individual learning styles.


It’s crucial to keep in mind that dogs that present challenges aren’t necessarily less intelligent; rather, they may exhibit a more independent nature shaped by their breeding history. Breeds like Livestock Guardian Dogs, for instance, developed an inherent independence due to their historical role in guarding flocks without constant human supervision. This independent spirit, while a unique and valuable trait, can pose challenges when it comes to imparting basic commands. Having been bred to think and act autonomously, they may require a bit more patience and understanding from their owners.






Training is essential to keep your dog safe in various situations, whether it’s staying within the yard or maintaining control during emergencies. The mental exercise from training helps keep your dog sharp, burn off excess energy, and minimize undesirable behaviors. Consistency and patience are key; reward your dog when they get it right. As the adage says, you can always teach an old dog new tricks.


No matter what you’re trying to teach your dog, from housetraining to “heel,” there are a few basic guidelines that can help make the process easier. Be sure to check out our feature on several of the most popular dog training methods. We also have articles on the basics of leash training for your pups. If you’ve got the basics covered and are looking for a few extra tricks, check out 10 Fun, Impressive Tricks You Can Teach Any Dog.


Related:


Dogs Who Are Challenging To Train

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs exhibit a remarkable spectrum of intelligence, encompassing a wide array of cognitive abilities and problem-solving skills. From the astute problem-solving abilities of breeds like Border Collies to the keen observational skills of German Shepherds, canine intelligence manifests in various forms. Some dogs excel in tasks requiring social intelligence, such as understanding human emotions and cues. Other may showcase exceptional learning capacity in their ability to master complex commands and tasks. Additionally, certain breeds demonstrate remarkable memory retention and the ability to adapt to new situations swiftly. However, it’s essential to recognize that intelligence in dogs is diverse and multifaceted. Intelligence is influenced not only by genetics, but also by individual experiences and environmental factors.


Dogs bred for tasks requiring decision-making, intelligence, and focus, such as herding livestock, require mental stimulation akin to how dogs bred for endurance need physical exercise. Lacking such mental engagement, they may resort to activities like digging or chewing to occupy themselves. It’s worth noting that while intelligence is valued, it doesn’t always correlate with trainability, especially in breeds bred for independent thinking. Hello, Livestock Guardians! Incorporating obedience training, interactive toys, and engaging activities like dog sports or careers such as agility and search and rescue can provide the mental challenge these dogs crave.









Keeping your dog mentally stimulated is crucial for their well-being. One way to do this is through interactive play and toys. Treat-dispensing toys or puzzles that require problem-solving can keep your dog entertained and mentally engaged. Regularly rotating toys can also prevent boredom. Additionally, incorporating training sessions into your daily routine provides mental stimulation while strengthening your bond with your dog. Teaching new tricks or practicing obedience commands challenges their mind and keeps them sharp.


Another way to stimulate your dog mentally is through enrichment activities. This includes activities that engage their senses, such as hide-and-seek games using treats or scent trails. Taking your dog on different walking routes or exploring new environments introduces novelty and mental stimulation. Additionally, providing opportunities for social interaction with other dogs through playdates or visits to dog parks can stimulate their minds through socialization. Regularly changing up their environment and offering new experiences helps prevent monotony and keeps your dog mentally sharp and happy.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Mouthiness, a tendency to nip, chew, and playfully bite, is a common behavior in puppies across many dog breeds. For some breeds, the tendency persists into adulthood, particularly with sporting and herding breeds. Because of this inherent instinct in many breeds, mouthy dogs are more inclined to use their mouths to hold or “herd” their human family members. Of course, this isn’t always appreciated! They require training to learn that chewing on toys is acceptable, but not on people. Breeds with a higher potential for mouthiness often greatly enjoy interactive games like fetch, as well as chewing on toys stuffed with kibble and treats.




Puppy mouthing and nipping may seem cute initially, but it can develop into an unwanted habit as the dog matures, especially in breeds with a potential for mouthiness. It’s important to understand that in the early stages of a puppy’s development, biting and mouthing is one of the ways they begin to explore and understand their environment. These aren’t true bites, but rather the puppy using their mouth to sense and interact with its surroundings. Even so, it’s a good idea to teach your dog commands like “drop it” or “let go” from a young age. This will help curb the mouthing behavior before it becomes an entrenched problem in adulthood.






The best way to train your dog out of mouthiness is to teach them how to play with a gentle mouth. Whenever your dog puts their mouth on your skin, make a high-pitched yelp or squeal. This teaches them that biting hurts. As they learn that their bite causes discomfort, they’ll start to use less pressure. It’s crucial to help your dog understand that they may accidentally apply too much force, resulting in a painful bite. You’ll need to consistently use this technique until your dog only applies the lightest pressure, using just their gums, when engaging in playful mouthing behaviors.


The key is to show your dog that hard bites are unacceptable, so they learn to play more gently with a soft mouth. The yelping response reinforces this lesson over time, allowing your dog to develop more control and gentleness when playing with their mouth.CopyRetry

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs with a high prey drive have an instinctive desire to stalk, capture, and prey upon potential food sources. Dogs who were bred to hunt, such as Terriers, have an inborn desire to chase — and sometimes kill — other animals. Anything whizzing by — such as cats, squirrels, and perhaps even cars — can trigger that instinct.




Off-leash adventures are too great a temptation for pups who will wander and hunt. Dogs who like to chase need to be leashed. And, even on a leash, you may experience your dog pulling on the leash to reach rodents or birds in their sight. Otherwise, these pups should be kept in a fenced area when outdoors. If your pup has a high prey drive, you’ll need a high, secure fence in your yard.


These breeds generally aren’t a good fit for homes with smaller pets that can look like prey, such as cats, hamsters, or small dogs. Breeds that were originally used for bird hunting, on the other hand, generally won’t chase, but you’ll probably have a hard time getting their attention when there are birds flying by.




Observing your dog’s prey drive, which is instinctual and biologically-rooted, is not the same as observing aggression. Much aggression is born of fear and anxiety, especially in the case of dog aggression toward humans.


The tendency to wander, even into oncoming traffic, can produce diasterious results for pups with predatory instincts. It can also lead to pups being bitten by snakes or attacked by other wild animals they may pursue while on the hunt.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds sound off more often than others. When choosing a breed, think about how often the dog vocalizes. Learn more about breeds with a tendency to bark or howl.


If you’re considering a hound, would you find their trademark howls musical or maddening? If you’re considering a watchdog, will a city full of suspicious “strangers” put your pup on permanent alert? Will the local wildlife literally drive your dog wild? Do you live in housing with noise restrictions? Do you have neighbors nearby who may not be thrilled about the booming barks? Then you may wish to choose a quieter dog.









Training a dog with a tendency to bark or howl excessively requires patience, consistency, and positive reinforcement techniques. Begin by identifying the triggers that prompt your dog to bark, whether it’s the doorbell, passing cars, or other animals. Once you understand the underlying causes, work on desensitizing your dog to these stimuli through gradual exposure and counterconditioning. For example, if your dog barks at the doorbell, practice ringing the bell repeatedly at a low volume while rewarding calm behavior with treats or praise. Gradually increase the intensity of the stimulus while continuing to reward quiet responses, reinforcing the idea that remaining quiet brings positive rewards.


In addition to desensitization exercises, teach your dog an alternative behavior to replace barking, such as “quiet” or “speak.” Use these commands in training sessions to encourage your dog to bark on cue and then stop when prompted. Consistency is crucial, so ensure everyone in the household is on board with the training plan and reinforces the desired behavior consistently. Finally, provide mental and physical stimulation through regular exercise and interactive toys to help alleviate boredom and reduce the likelihood of excessive barking.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs possess a natural inclination for exploration and adventure, often displaying wanderlust tendencies that stem from their ancestral instincts. With their keen sense of smell and curiosity, dogs are drawn to new scents, sights, and experiences. As a result, they may be inherently prone to wander off if given the opportunity. This wanderlust potential varies across breeds, with some exhibiting stronger instincts for exploration than others. Breeds such as the Siberian Husky, Beagle, and Australian Shepherd are known for their independent spirits and high energy levels. They may be more likely to wander off in search of excitement or stimulation. However, even breeds typically considered more docile may still succumb to wanderlust if not properly trained or supervised.






To mitigate the risk of dogs wandering away, responsible pet ownership involves implementing preventative measures and training techniques. Providing adequate physical and mental stimulation through regular exercise, interactive play, and enrichment activities can help satisfy a dog’s innate desire for exploration and reduce the likelihood of wandering behavior. Having a general awareness of the “escape artist” tendencies in certain breeds can help you in ensuring the safety of your pup. Additionally, training commands such as recall and leash manners are essential for establishing boundaries and ensuring that dogs remain under control when outdoors. Investing in secure fencing for outdoor spaces and using identification tags or microchips can also provide added security and peace of mind in case of accidental escapes.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Energetic dogs, bred for specific tasks such as retrieving for hunters or herding livestock, are always ready for action and have enough stamina to work a full day. Additionally, active dogs with high energy levels necessitate a significant amount of physical and mental activity. These dogs enjoy jumping, playing, and discovering new sights and smells. Owners of high-energy breeds must provide outlets for their dogs’ physical and mental needs to keep them healthy and happy.


Low-energy dogs, on the other hand, are the canine equivalent of a couch potato, content to spend their days sleeping. When choosing a dog breed, you should consider your activity level and the energy level of your potential companion. Determine whether you would find certain dogs’ lively and energetic personalities invigorating or potentially overwhelming. Understanding a breed’s energy requirements is critical for ensuring a harmonious match between the dog’s needs and the owner’s preferences, resulting in a satisfying and balanced companionship.






Exercise requirements for high-energy dogs can vary even within the same breed. It’s also important to note that age doesn’t exempt senior dogs from exercise; they simply require shorter walks compared to their younger years. For energetic dogs, a leashed stroll around the block won’t be enough. The goal is to ensure that your dog is sufficiently tired and content by the time the exercise session concludes.


To meet the exercise needs of active breeds, it’s recommended to provide at least 30 minutes of vigorous aerobic exercise most days. This applies not only to larger breeds but also to smaller ones. Some toy breeds are prone to obesity and may need more activity than one might assume. Safety is paramount, so during extreme weather conditions, it’s advisable to stay indoors and engage your dog’s mind through activities like trick training, interactive play with toys, or running up and down stairs together. A well-rounded exercise routine involves activities that challenge both mental and physical muscles, such as exploring new hiking trails. Check out our guide on the Top 10 Ways to Exercise With Your Dog.








Click here for more information on this characteristic

A dog with high intensity exudes boundless energy and enthusiasm in everything they do, whether it’s pulling on the leash, tackling obstacles with gusto, or devouring meals with voracious appetite. While their exuberance can be endearing, it also necessitates consistent training to instill good manners. However, not everyone will appreciate their high energy levels. Some high intensity dogs may not pair well to households with young children or individuals who are elderly or frail, as their exuberance could inadvertently pose a risk.


In contrast, a low-intensity dog approaches life with a more relaxed and subdued demeanor. These dogs typically exhibit a calmer disposition, preferring leisurely strolls and gentle interactions over exuberant displays of energy. Their tranquil nature often makes them ideal companions for those seeking a more laid-back canine companion. This may be particularly true in homes where a quieter atmosphere is preferred.









Training and exercise are crucial for dogs with high-intensity personalities to manage their energy effectively. Consistent training using positive reinforcement techniques helps instill good manners and impulse control. Engaging them in mentally stimulating activities, alongside regular physical exercise like agility or fetch, is essential to prevent boredom-driven behaviors and promote overall well-being. Variety in their exercise routine, such as exploring new trails or participating in dog sports, ensures both physical and mental stimulation for a balanced and fulfilling life.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Different dog breeds have varying exercise needs, and understanding these requirements is crucial for ensuring a happy and healthy canine companion. Some breeds are content with a leisurely evening stroll around the block, while others demand daily, vigorous exercise routines, particularly those originally bred for physically demanding tasks like herding or hunting. Without sufficient physical activity, these high-energy breeds may face issues such as weight gain and express their pent-up energy in undesirable behaviors like excessive barking, chewing, and digging.


We often think of exercise only as a health issue, but it has significant day-to-day effects on a dog’s behavior as well. Dogs — particularly puppies and young dogs — have a lot of energy, and if they don’t get the chance to burn it off, destructive behavior is often the result. If you’re annoyed at your dog’s digging, have headaches from barking, and need to replace pillows shredded into expensive fluff, your dog is probably not getting enough exercise.






Generally speaking, a leashed walk around the block isn’t going to cut it. Most dogs need 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity a day. Your canine pal needs enough that they’re slowed down by the time you stop.


Some general guidelines for getting your dog enough exercise:















Click here for more information on this characteristic

Understanding your dog’s temperament is crucial when considering their exercise and play needs. Some dogs have a high potential for playfulness, constantly seeking out games and activities to engage in. These playful pups can be endearing, but it’s essential to consider how much time and energy you have to dedicate to play each day. Think about whether you’re prepared for multiple rounds of fetch or tag and if you have other family members, kids, or even other dogs who can serve as playmates for your furry friend.


On the other hand, some dogs are more serious by nature. While they may still enjoy playtime, it might not be as frequent or vigorous as with their more playful counterparts. Understanding your dog’s individual temperament helps you tailor their exercise routine to suit their needs and preferences. It’s about finding the right balance between providing enough mental and physical stimulation without overwhelming them or neglecting their need for relaxation and downtime.









Playing with our pups is good for us. Seriously, science says so! To make the most of spending time with breeds with a high potential for playfulness, consider incorporating a variety of interactive games and toys to keep them mentally stimulated and physically active. Engage in activities such as fetch, tug-of-war, or hide-and-seek, which tap into their natural instincts and provide both mental and physical exercise. Use positive reinforcement, such as treats and praise, to encourage good behavior and reinforce the bond between you. Remember to be patient and flexible, allowing your dog to lead the play session and adapt to their preferences. Finally, ensure a safe environment by removing any potential hazards and supervising closely, especially when introducing new toys or activities.

Click here for more information on this characteristic
Siberian Huskies were originally bred by the Chukchi people of Siberia to help them hunt and pull sleds. They are known for their friendly and outgoing personalities, and they are also intelligent and easy to train. Siberian Huskies are bred to pull sleds, so they need plenty of exercise. They are not good guard dogs, as they are too friendly with strangers.
If you are thinking about getting a Siberian Husky, do your research to ensure they are the right breed for you. They are a high-energy breed that needs plenty of exercise, so they are not a good fit for everyone. However, if you are looking for a friendly, intelligent, and outgoing dog, a Siberian Husky may be the perfect breed.
Here are some additional things to keep in mind if you are considering getting a Siberian Husky:
If you are willing to put in the time and effort, a Siberian Husky can be a wonderful companion. They are loyal, loving, and always up for an adventure.
Unfortunately, many people purchase Huskies solely for their beauty without considering their temperament and quirks. This has led to many dogs being lost, abandoned, or surrendered to shelters. Prospective owners should educate themselves about the breed and consider adoption or fostering before deciding to bring a Husky into their lives.
Energetic and hardworking: Siberian Huskies have a strong work ethic and were originally bred by the Chukchi people of Siberia to pull sleds over long distances. Their endurance and energy make them well-suited for various activities and tasks.
Distinctive appearance: Siberian Huskies boast a striking appearance with erect triangular ears, a thick double coat in various colors, and captivating eyes that can be blue, brown, green, or amber. Heterochromia, where each eye is a different color, is not uncommon among them.
Friendly and sociable: Siberian Huskies are known for their friendly and sociable nature. They typically get along well with people and other dogs, making them amiable companions for families.
Independent thinkers: These dogs are intelligent and independent thinkers. While this trait makes them quick learners, it also means they may display a level of stubbornness, requiring consistent training and positive reinforcement.
Vocal communicators: Huskies are expressive and known for their vocalizations, including howling, “talking,” and other distinctive sounds. Their communicative nature adds to their charm and uniqueness.
Cold-resistant and adaptable: With a double coat designed to withstand cold temperatures, Siberian Huskies are well-adapted to cold climates. They have physiological features that help regulate their body temperature in harsh conditions.
Exercise enthusiasts: Siberian Huskies are highly energetic and require regular exercise to keep them happy and healthy. Activities like running, hiking, and pulling are ideal for meeting their physical and mental stimulation needs.
Regular grooming needs: Due to their double coat, Siberian Huskies shed heavily, especially during seasonal changes. Regular grooming is essential to manage shedding and maintain the health of their coat.
Potential health considerations: While generally healthy, Siberian Huskies can be prone to certain health issues, including hip dysplasia, eye problems, and autoimmune disorders. Regular veterinary check-ups and a well-balanced diet contribute to their overall well-being.
In 1908, Siberian Huskies were imported to Alaska and used as sled dogs during the gold rush. They were also used in the All-Alaska Sweepstakes, a 408-mile dogsled race. The breed continued to thrive in North America, even after the Soviet government closed the borders to Siberia in 1930. Although the Siberian Husky has changed slightly from its Siberian foundation dog, the Chukchi Sled Dog, it still maintains many of the wonderful qualities of that breed.
Siberian Huskies are medium-sized dogs, standing 20 to 24 inches tall at the withers and weighing 35 to 60 pounds. Males are typically larger than females.
Siberian Huskies are pack dogs, and they need an owner who is the clear leader of the pack. This makes training easier because you will find that your dog respects you, but don’t be surprised if he tests the limits of your position in the pack and tries to take control from time to time. When this happens, it’s important not to give into their pushiness. Assert yourself as leader — not by bullying or hitting — but by confirming the ground rules with clarity and consistency.
Making your dog wait to eat is one of the best ways to establish your leadership role. The Husky will view you as the keeper of all valuable resources — food, treats, toys and other canine assets. This high-energy breed can be destructive both indoors and out — especially when bored or not given adequate exercise. They will demolish a house if they are left alone, and a Siberian Husky has even been chewing through a cement wall.
They will dig up flower gardens and yards alike, but they can be trained to dig in a specific spot in the yard. It is better for everyone if you merely teach your dog to dig in one spot instead of trying to break him of that habit. Nonetheless, they can be quite charming with their mischievous and playful nature.
They are also quite social and love to show off their talents. Siberian Huskies do not bark — that’s the good news. Here’s the bad: they do enjoy howling, which can be very frustrating for your neighbors. Unless you have a properly trained and well-exercised Siberian Husky, they do not make ideal pets for apartments.
Another caution: although Huskies are adored for being friendly and gentle, they make lousy watchdogs. Unfortunately, they are not overly suspicious of strangers, including burglars. The fact is that they tend to love everybody. Temperament doesn’t occur in a vacuum. It’s affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who’s beating up his littermates or the one who’s hiding in the corner.
Always meet at least one of the parents — usually, the mother is the one who’s available — to ensure that they have nice temperaments that you’re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up. Like every dog, Siberian Huskies need early exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences when they’re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Siberian puppy grows into a well-rounded dog.
Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Regularly inviting visitors over and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Huskies are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they’re prone to certain health conditions. Not all Huskies will get any or all of these diseases, but it’s important to be aware of them if you’re considering this breed. If you’re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy’s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Huskies, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA) for hip dysplasia (with a score of fair or better), elbow dysplasia, hypothyroidism, and von Willebrand’s disease; from Auburn University for thrombopathia; and from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. You can confirm health clearances by checking the OFA web site (offa.org).
Regardless of how healthy your dog is when you first bring them home, you should prepare for any issues that may come up throughout their life. A pet insurance plan can help you stay ready for any of your dog’s veterinary needs.
Siberian Huskies must exercise 30 to 60 minutes daily to avoid boredom. They make excellent jogging companions but should not be exercised in hot weather. Surprisingly, they need only a small (but secure) backyard to expend their energy. Bottom line: Siberian Huskies need to be working to stay happy. Usually, just maintaining your own active life through hiking and other outdoor sports will keep your Siberian Husky healthy, happy, and out of trouble. As mentioned earlier, training is a must with this breed and you may want to invest in more advanced obedience classes.
This can be difficult for many owners and trainers as the breed is very intelligent and will determine the difference between classes and home. They will behave wonderfully in class, following all instructions and commands, but at home, they may revert back to the stubborn dog that stole your heart. This can be frustrating, but you will find that patience, time, and a little of your own stubbornness will pay off.
Leash training is also necessary, as Siberian Huskies should never be left off-leash when not in a fenced area. They love to run and will do so without any thought of how far away you are. You can easily lose your Siberian Husky if he chases something or enjoys a heartfelt run. Siberian Huskies have a high prey drive, which is another reason they should be leashed during walks.
Recommended daily amount: 1.5 to 2 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into two meals. When it comes to meal times, Siberian Huskies are known for being “easy keepers” — requiring a relatively small amount of food for their size. This trait may be traced to the origins of the breed, as the Chukchis developed these dogs to pull a light load at a fast pace over great distances in low temperatures on the smallest possible intake of food. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level.
Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don’t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog, and the less of it you’ll need to shake into your dog’s bowl. For more on feeding your Husky, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
Make sure your vacuum cleaner is in top working order, and you book time regularly to groom if you adopt a Siberian Husky. His double coat features medium-length hair. The top coat is straight and the undercoat feels soft and dense. Expect lots of hair and lots of shedding — especially during spring and fall when they blow their coats. That said, this is a fairly easy breed to care for. Siberian Huskies living in cooler temperatures tend to shed less than those who live in warmer climates.
You can avoid matting — and excess hair on your furniture — if you commit to brushing your dog’s coat at least once a week during the year — and daily during shedding season. Siberian Huskies are clean dogs and will take the time to clean themselves — much like a cat will. They don’t typically emit “doggy” odor and rarely need baths. Unless they wiggle in something disgusting in the backyard or find a stinky body of water to jump in.
When it is bath time, select a high-quality dog shampoo designed to keep the natural oils in your dog’s skin and coat. Huskies come in a variety of colors and markings, from black to pure white with colored markings on the body that include reds and coppers. Their eyes can be brown, blue, or a combination. Their faces sport masks that add to their eye appeal. Brush your Husky’s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it.
Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Trim their nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn’t wear them down naturally to prevent painful tears and other problems. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they’re too long. Dog toenails have blood vessels in them, and if you cut too far you can cause bleeding — and your dog may not cooperate the next time he sees the nail clippers come out.
So, if you’re not experienced in trimming dog nails, ask a vet or groomer for pointers. His ears should be checked weekly for redness or a bad odor, which can indicate an infection. When you check your dog’s ears, wipe them out with a cotton ball dampened with gentle, pH-balanced ear cleaner to help prevent infections.
Don’t insert anything into the ear canal; just clean the outer ear. Begin accustoming your Husky to being brushed and examined when he’s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you’ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he’s an adult. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, nose, mouth, eyes, and feet. Eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
Huskies make great pets for households with children. They can be very tolerant of children, but like all other dogs, should be supervised when around young children. Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he’s eating or to try to take the dog’s food away. No dog should ever be left unsupervised with a child.
Siberian Huskies do get along with other dogs, but it is still important to take your puppy to socialization classes. This gets them used to other dogs and people, although they are also very affectionate to strangers. Socialization teaches puppies how to behave and greet other dogs and their owners. Keep in mind the history of this breed.
The harsh conditions in Siberia created a strong prey drive in this breed because food was often hard to find. As a result, many Huskies today maintain that prey drives toward small animals such as squirrels, rabbits, and cats. Some Huskies, however, thrive in multi-pet households, especially when they are raised with other pets from puppyhood.
Siberian Huskies are often purchased without any clear understanding of what goes into owning one. Many Huskies are in need of adoption and/or fostering. There are a number of rescues that we have not listed. If you don’t see a rescue listed for your area, contact the national breed club or a local breed club, and they can point you toward a Husky rescue.
While purebred Siberian Huskies may have a distinct wolf-like appearance, a number of Husky mixes, such as the German Shepherd Husky mix, Pomeranian Husky mix, or Husky Corgi mix, have gained recent popularity. You may also want to check shelters for Siberian Husky mixes, as mixed breeds can be less prone to health conditions.
All dogs will need veterinary care at some point in their lives. When you adopt, ensure you’re prepared to address any health issues that may arise after you leave the shelter. A pet insurance plan can keep your dog covered.
Finding a reputable dog breeder is one of the most important decisions you will make when bringing a new dog into your life. Reputable breeders are committed to breeding healthy, well-socialized puppies that will make great companions. They will screen their breeding stock for health problems, socialize their puppies from a young age, and provide you with lifetime support.
On the other hand, backyard breeders are more interested in making a profit than in producing healthy, well-adjusted dogs. They may not screen their breeding stock for health problems or socialize their puppies properly. As a result, puppies from backyard breeders are more likely to have both health and behavioral issues.
Siberian Husky Club of America, Inc
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
