Cat Breeds
Formally known as the Siberian Forest Cat, the Siberian is a medium-sized semi-long-haired breed with a stunning triple coat and a charming personality.
Intelligent and playful, the Siberian cat loves to give and receive affection. These adorable kitties live to spend their days and nights alongside their favorite people, often chatting in melodic voices that have nothing in common with the harsher vocalizations of other talkative breeds such as the Siamese.
Siberian cats have a great reputation for friendliness, even where strangers are concerned. These cats happily greet everyone and so long as their experience is a positive one, they have the ability to befriend very young children, other felines, and respectful dogs.
Even though they are friendly and playful, Siberian cats are not terribly mischievous. They will get into things on occasion, but they are far more interested in watching their favorite humans while providing little tidbits of advice via those chirping, trilling, meows that contribute to their lovability. Since they like water and have water resistant coats, Siberians have a comical habit of playing in the water and even joining their favorite people at shower time.
The Siberian cat does have a mellow side, but it may take some time for quiet behaviors to dominate as this breed doesn't reach full maturity until about five years of age.
Siberian cats aren't terribly clingy, but they do thrive with companionship as they are communal by nature. If you spend most of your time away from home, consider adopting a second cat to keep your Moscow Longhair company.
The Siberian cat does not have any special nutritional requirements; however, you may want to choose food with added Omega fatty acids to support healthy skin and keep your cat's coat in great condition. We recommend choosing high-protein, low carbohydrate food that's appropriate for your cat's life stage, as it can promote proper body weight and help your pet achieve longevity.
The Siberian cat has a very thick triple coat that consists of long guard hairs on the outside, a second long coat made up of awn hairs, and a shorter, downy undercoat that lies close to the skin. Surprisingly, this coat has a tendency to remain tangle-free, even without frequent brushing. Siberian cat parents find themselves brushing far more often as winter weather gives way to summer's warmer temperatures and the heavy undercoat is shed.
Since the Siberian cat is so playful and energetic, you might want to keep their claws trimmed to help prevent damage to your furnishings, clothing, and skin. In addition, you may wish to promote better dental health by teaching your cat to allow you to brush their teeth.
Beneath that thick, fluffy coat lies the heart of an Olympian. Siberian cats love to show off their athletic prowess and will do so whether you provide them with appropriate cat furniture or not. These kitties truly appreciate tall cat condos with big platforms to accommodate their large size. They also enjoy wall-mounted shelves, window seats, scratching posts, and interactive toys.
While you won't have to provide your cat with too much encouragement to play during its formative years, you may need to take the lead later in life. Siberian cats can easily become obese without ample exercise.
While Siberian Forest cats are generally healthy, they do have a slightly elevated risk for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Some individuals are prone to feline lower urinary tract disease.
The Siberian cat is a naturally occurring cat breed that has been refined through selective breeding. These cats originate from Russia, and the breed may be hundreds or even over a thousand years old. Some feline geneticists have suggested that these ancient cats might have contributed some of the DNA that went into creating new or domestic long-haired cats.
As one of Russia's national treasures, Siberian cats have enjoyed pride of place in folklore and fairy tales. According to legends, Siberians guided souls to the underworld, guarded homes, told stories, and sang songs. One particularly appealing legend says that anyone who buys or builds a new home should let the Siberian cat enter first, and for luck, place a bed in the spot where the cat decides to lie down.
Incredibly, and despite its long history in Russia, the breed is a recent addition to Western breed registries. One of the first Siberian cat breed standards was published by the Kotofei Cat Club of St. Petersburg in 1987.
Siberian cats were introduced to life in America in 1990, when Elizabeth Terrel of Starpoint Cattery imported a trio of Siberians, naming them Kaliostro, Nain, and Ofelia.
The International Cat Association. (TICA) accepted Siberians as a new breed in 1992 and elevated it to championship status in 1996. The Cat Fanciers Association granted official recognition in 2000 and advanced the breed to championship status in 2006. Today, the Siberian cat enjoys recognition around the world and is gaining popularity. The breed is still considered to be somewhat rare outside Russia, but is getting easier to find.
Siberian cats are also known as Moscow Semi-Longhairs. The colorpoint variation is recognized separately by some registries, which call it the Neva Masquerade.
The Siberian cat is one of a few breeds that is sometimes called hypoallergenic due to the fact that it's saliva produces a lower than average amount of an allergen called Fel D1.
Siberian cats can be quite large, sometimes achieving a weight of up to 20 pounds.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Siberian, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Siberian or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Siberian, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Siberian cats cost between $1000-$2000.
Siberian cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Siberian cat might weigh between 17-26 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 9"- 11" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Siberian is 12-15 years.
Siberian are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
I was just given a kitten a few days ago. I took a photo if it. My iPhone said “look up Siberian cat. ” Just wondered how accurate that is. She is only a few weeks old. Her personality fits the description, and facial features, and a layered coat. But it’s summer and warm, maybe I can tell more when the weather is cooler. I know it’s not a purebred (I have seen the mother cat). but maybe the father was.
I’ve been a lifelong cat lover but I always got rescues and prior to getting my boys, I had been adopting feline leukemia positive cats in spite of the reality of short life span. About 7 years ago, after losing my second cat in 18 months, I decided I had reached my grief tolerance capacity and threw myself into researching cats that were low allergen and had the capacity to be therapy animals. I know that cat allergies plague many people and I wanted to give folks an opportunity to connect without having to worry about an allergic response. Hypoallergenic does not mean allergy free – so if you have any doubts, breeders will provide a bag of fur from the parents that you can put on your end table when you sleep to test for sensitivity. There are other breeds that are even lower allergen. Most important was health and temperament. I ended up choosing a breeder that had two small children and an adorable little yorkie. They posted kitten videos regularly on their social media and you could just tell how much these fur babies were loved and cared for. The breeder required I fill out an application and asked questions about my living space and situation. I was living alone, so the breeder encouraged me to consider purchasing two kittens or adopting another animal so my new kitten wouldn’t be spending much of its time alone.  Siberians are VERY social and will frequently display unwanted behaviors if they are not appropriately socialized or have opportunities for energetic play. Many breeders will refuse to sell to households where they will be alone much of the time. I decided to get 2 male littermates. Best. Decision. Ever. Although I’m pretty sure I wasn’t jumping for joy at the time.
They are the best therapy animals and I’ve never had anyone have an allergic reaction to them, although I must admit, I always have an air purifier in my environment. However, there are certain things that need to be communicated with uneducated humans. I wrote a list of rules that I posted on the wall of my office. Among them – Don’t use your fingers or toes as toys. Don’t pick them up or try to restrain their freedom of movement. Also, I’ve learned you don’t use a spray bottle to discipline and don’t yell at or around them. All of these things can lead to fear and mistrust of humans.
Our little Siberian is now 9 1/2 weeks old.
What a joy she has brought us.  She is cuddly loves to purr  and so tiny, really  tiny. I think she weighs maybe  10grams.  She  is tiny, she is calico  and is my shadow, follows me all the time.
She does enjoy baths but that is limited to once every three weeks.  We make sure she is dry before removing the blanket, about 1-2 hrs.
Be prepared to watch something on T.V.  She can play loves it, and at night she sleeps between my husband and myself. Closer to me, yet I have  asthma and reactions to cats.  With her I can bury my face in her fur and  no problems.
She is great.
The best thing to happen in our  lives, even the grandchildren love her.
She is precious to us.
I adopted Oolie, a medium haired kitten,  from our local shelter five years ago this week. I’ve fostered dozens of kittens and he was pretty typical of the more well adjusted ones. Well socialized and playful but not particularly interested in humans. I got him for Koko, our food insecure, and aggressive then 8 month old who had been orphaned in a feral colony. Although he attacked his elders, I thought what he needed was a kitten to raise, and I was right – from the moment he first saw him he was smitten He spoiled his baby rotten, and to this day, will not eat until Oolie has finished.
Our two vets both said “wow – he is going to be big – look at those feet!” but Oolie really started to look different from other cats when he hit puberty. His fur got really short – except for his tail, which got big and fluffy – people would think he was mad. And then his fur – and size set in. Before he was a year old, he weighed 20 pounds, and had a very long triple coat, with a definate mane that stands out all the way around ( while Koko, a long haired Tux  his big chest hair, but no mane). Mid summer, the fur on his upper back gets very short, so that he looks like he is wearing a Spencer jacket with big Dutch pants. I have never seen this on another cat. Also, he began to meep and trill – like a bird and unlike any other cat I have ever heard. Sort of a purdle, but higher pitched, more melodic and it lasts longer. He uses this to call his cat buddies. When he wants to talk to me, he meows – a rather kitteny meow.  Why he uses a different language with me than with other cats is a real curiosity. but he has taught that trill to our other cats, though their versions are less bird like. I looked up his traits and found that he matches a Siberian to a T – from his round but tufted ears, face shape, fur type, body type, vocalizations, crazily tufted toes, large size, obvious snow protective mane and rump fur which mats very easily, He also has extremely sensitive hearing (for hearing prey under snow, I expect) and mews if our parrot or TV gets too loud.
I thought he was terribly over weight, and took him to the vet recently. He’s only gained 2 pounds since he was 11 months old, which surprised me. He feels like he weighs 30 or 40 pounds – curious that that too matches the description of this breed. And his belly, round as it is, is taut – not a bit of flab on him. The vet said he could lose a couple pounds, but he’s just a very big, barrel chested cat.
Personality wise, it took him a long time to take an interest in humans. now that he is, he loves to come for a cuddle about twice a day and then go back to one of his chairs, which he has his own way of sitting in – fanny on the seat and feet hanging over the arm rest. He does the same on the end of our bed and in an S shaped cat chair that we call his bus, because he looks like hes driving when he sits in it. He basically sleeps all the time, playing, if at all, in short bursts, and preferably without getting to his feet. He does not chase.
If he wants something, including the meal one of the other cats is eating, or a lap one of the other cats is sitting in, he simply takes it. Everyone knows it and skitters out of his way He wont punch you or give you stink eye. He will simply shove his big head in your bowl or sit on you. He is a gentle giant but still intimidates the others who are 9 and 15 pounds. They will no longer play with him, which disappoints him, but he plays for keeps and I think it must be pretty scary.
I’ve had so many cats in my life – never lived without at least one, and nearly all my life I’ve had several. But never one like this. His coat, his vocalizations, and his personality are all new to me. We have however, seen two others in town – that I am certain are his brother and sister . Both huge, thick furred and beautiful, one orange like my guy ( except Oolie has white feet and bib, and the other a calico.
I have no idea if he is pure bred nor how he came to be in our shelter if he is. I live in a small town that is popular to vacationers and wealthy half timers in the Appalachians. It’s conceivable that someone lost a pregnant pet when they switched houses, I suppose. At any rate, he is a great cat, and just what Koko needed. He was the first cat we’ve had in over 20 years that wasn’t a trauma rescue, and that may account for the attitude that gave him the nickname “Oolie don’ care”. Nothing ruffles him. Kind of refreshing after living with so many traumatized, abused, feral, and otherwise neglected cats. He was chosen to bring peace to our stressed out household and certainly has done a great job of that.
I enjoyed reading the many stories about the Siberian. Mine has many of the same behaviors and temperament.
My Sasha is a nine yr old, adopted from a shelter in late 2013. She had been a stray, heaven knows for how long. The first yr she was with me she lived under the couch. She had no whiskers or eyebrows, was matted, didn’t like brushing, had severe eye infection and suffered UTI’s twice a yr. She is recovered from all ailments, eats Science Diet dry designed to forestall UTI’s. She still dislikes being brushed, but groomer can bath and clip her short. Living in the southwest, heat can be a problem, so she’s happiest when clipped short.
She is quiet, not playful at all, and cuddles when she wants. She does insist on going outside in the wee hours of the morning. After nine years I’ve learned to let her out when she start asking. She is persistent in her request and doesn’t give up until I open the door. Warm or cold weather, she gets her way.  Of course, cold weather brings her back in faster. She responds to whistles when I want her back sooner.
She is definately the boss, gets her way most of the time and makes me laugh daily. Best of all, I have no doubt she loves me almost as much as I love her. I think she likes living with me too.
My two boys are 4 months apart. Same dad, different mothers. Very different personalities. The older, Loki, is a lap cat. Follows me around like a puppy. Just found his voice at 20 months. Pet me yes, brush me on the top but don’t touch my belly.   Koko, the younger is wary —- took 6 months before i could even pick him up.  He still hates it .  BUT— jumps up on the couch rolls over and wants to be brushed all day long even the belly.  Just don’t pick me up.     My friends with allergies have no issues with my boys.  Love these guys
We have a fourteen year old Siberian female. She was very nervous when she came to us at about four, because she had had a whole series of traumatic events as a young cat. So we left her very largely to herself, fed her, told her we loved her, took care never to do anything to her she disliked and let her get on with it. As the years went by she gradually became less and less nervous until now she is the most devoted cat I have ever known. She likes nothing better than to curl up with me and purr, endlessly. She is completely gentle, talks a lot, is very well-behaved, is highly intelligent and is generally just a Perfect Cat. Although she has the typical Siberian stocky build, every movement she makes is a poem in grace. She has taught me more about communication between cats and humans than any other cat I have ever known.
Siberians are a wonderful breed. I cannot recommend them too highly.
One specific thing that is worth knowing: Siberians do not communicate with other cats by voice much. They reserve that for humans. If they have to conduct a disagreement with another cat, they do not usually do it by hissing and waving paws at each other. That has been our experience, anyway. Instead they stare. The Siberian Stare is very powerful. I have seen two Siberians who were arguing over territory stare at each other at a range of about three feet for almost an hour. So first, if you stare at your Siberian, they may interpret it as an aggression. It is hard not to look at them, because they are such beautiful cats, but that is worth remembering. The other thing is that if you have to reassure a nervous Siberian, try blinking slowly at them three times then look away. In cat language that means “I am happy and comfortable that you are here”. It really works.
It seems like there are a lot of comments on Siberian kittens and young cats, so I’ll add a post on the long-haul Siberian experience. Our blue seal point boy just turned 12 and, like most of the folks posting, we love him to pieces. True to breed standard, he’s super affectionate with family, he has a steadily growing vocabulary (chirps, mews, meows, whines, caterwauls, guttural batshit-crazy noises, etc.), he’ll greet us and follow us around the house, and he can also be stubborn, high-strung, and a bit of a diva. He does NOT do water, especially snow. He also won’t let us brush him (never has), but is only too happy to let us scratch everything from the ruff up for hours. For those who have young Siberians who like to be near you but not sit in your lap or sleep with you, give it a few years. It took about 10 years for our guy to transform into a lap cat and now he’s like velcro. Some of you also may experience the HCM issue at some point, the most common breed health issue, though a few US breeders are working very hard to get it out of their genetics. For those who do, I want to share the hopeful experience that our cat has had slow-moving HCM since he was 7 and is not only still with us, but otherwise incredibly healthy and energetic for his age. No stiffness and still as playful as he was when he was a younger cat, he just spends a smaller percentage of his day running around like a lunatic. We opted for a Siberian because my spouse has fairly bad cat allergies, and we’ve had great luck all these years. Every cat is different and has his/her own personality, but if you’re going for a particular breed profile, the Siberian is hard to beat.
We adopted a 6month old Siberian (now3), she started out life rough, her and her sister were found abandoned, no sign of a mom. She was missing some basic cat skills. One thing the adoption centre said was she needed to be with an older, mentor cat. We were looking for a pal for our 6yr old main coon. The first 6 months of her moving in were a huge learning curve. All I will say is I became a much calmer person trying to coparent this cuddly ball of curiosity. She has blossomed into the most perfect little sister, who will surprise pounce her big bro any chance she gets. She continues to surprise us with how gentle and playful she is. Meanwhile our big guy loves having a little sister he can play with. We joke that each cat has a human so our family is complete. Side note our Siberian loves to play, we have about 2hrs total thru the day we stop and play with her. Then she sleeps well.
I recently had an injured cat show up at my door. Her tail had been severed, it was a really bad injury. I tried to find an owner but had no luck and because of covid restrictions i was unable to take her to a shelter or a humane society. My roommate is allergic to cats so she would not allow me to bring her inside so after 3 nights of the cat coming back I finally put my foot down and brought her in. I took her to the vet, they checked her for a chip and there was not one. She had gotten her tail chopped off by the vet and after I brought her home. Because she was not bred I don’t know for sure if she is a Siberian but I have done lots of research and I am pretty confidant she is. My roommate has not had any reactions to her and she sheds very minimally. Before her tail was removed and she was outside she was the most loving and sweetest cat but since her surgery she has been mean. If you per her for more than a minute she swats and bites you. She seems to like me the most but to everyone else she bites and scratches them. The vet estimated that she was around 3 and I am wondering if this is normal or if maybe she was traumatized from the surgery. I have also only had her for almost 2 months.
Hi Sarah, thank you for commenting. It’s hard to say whether or not her change in behavior is due to the surgery to remove her tail. This question may be better answered by your veterinarian.
We are eagerly awaiting our almost 3 month old Siberian male kitten Nico. Tomorrow will are picking him up. We have purchased all the necessary items, including toys. More to follow tomorrow!
I adopted a 2 yr old Siberian in 29 Palms, CA. Moved to Tennessee & he is 4 now. He. wakes me up by patting my face with his paw. If I don’t move he will head butt me. If I still don’t move
move he will jump on my head! He is spoiled but we love him. If I am not feeling well he will lie next to me & lick my hand. I love my Lars❤
Lars sounds wonderful! Thank you for sharing.
We just adopted a beautiful girl named Esmeralda {Esmè}. She’s everything in the description to a T. She’s so loving after only a few days in our house. She sleeps in our beds, cuddles constantly. She will actually come up to us and throw herself on us and ask for tummy rubs. She loves her toys and has many. She has long black triple coat fur with some reddish brown. Gorgeous huge green eyes and the most beautiful profile. She is also on the small side at 9lbs. We feed her a high quality diet (no dry food) and her coat is immaculate. The adoption people told me she takes very good care of her coat and it shows. I’m allergic to cats as well and that was the first thing I noticed about her…no immune response whatsoever. She’s starting to shed her winter coat but she does it differently than our two Siamese. Her fur comes off in a matted clump although she doesn’t have any mats on her. She’s the most gentle kitty, even when she plays and paws or bites at us she’s extremely gentle. She’s a lovely girl and we’re so fortunate to have her in our lives.
We were adopted 6 years ago by a Siberian male and since then, we’re noticing constant changes in his behavior. As mentioned very well above, they might not be the ideal pet to sit in your lap and behave like a domestic cat. But our boy understood gradually how much we love him and need him, so he is the one showing us in return his love and devotion to us. We are having so much fun playing hide and seek around the house, provoking him to jump and joining him in the garden when he displays his tree climbing abilities. He is the proudest lion we’ve ever seen and our neighbors adore him for his personality and beauty. When he was young, he was notc ready to accept us as partners, after he grew to love his house and us, he constantly tries to be our dog?, he is talking to us in different tonalities (depending on his wishes), chirping and telling us how happy he is we are back home, or simply demanding his rights when he wants us to sit down and purr together. He is the happiness of our house, we think about him even at work and we can’t imagine our lives without him. We even cut or trips short, so we can come back to see him and kiss him many times ?. There s no other car or dog we could recommend more, it’s the perfect addition to any family and any siberian you can find will change your life for good. Hope this helps, happy cat life!
I have had a Siberian kitten since Aug 2019, my 10 year old son has allergies and is not allergic to her. She has a wonderful personality and is so friendly, she could be sitting with my husband and I and will then notice our son is somewhere else so she goes to find him, she lived to curl up on our chest and sleep when we first got her, now she likes to curl up next to us. She was starting to claw our furniture and other items so at her last Vet appointment for shots and deworming I asked the Vet about sprays etc to keep her from clawing, the vet told us about cat caps you glue on the front paws, we ordered some from Amazon and they work amazing, they do fall off and have to be replaced but she can still use scratch pad and everything it just doesn’t get torn up. So far also Thank goodness we have not had poo poo on her, she does eat very good dry and wet food from the pet store and vet clinic with no added grains, so as mentioned above maybe it’s grain food that causes poo to stick to fur. We brush her ( she is still not a fan) and gave her a couple baths. She races all over and is so playful, my husband has commented more than once what an intelligent breed she is, always watching us and following us, doesn’t lay around like most cats she is aware of everything. She knows she can’t bug us during meal time or beg so she sits next to me and won’t meow just lightly taps my leg and looks at me with big blue eyes, I give her little nibbles of meat or whatever I am eating as a small treat.
I have to Siberian cats that are siblings and they are very playful they make a lot of noise when they’re chasing each other around the house. They are also very loving pets and I’m happy that I finally got them. Also I’m allergic to cats normally but they don’t seem to bother allergies to much at least I don’t get itchy and sneezy.
Is it normal for seberian cats to sigh. That’s the best way I can describe the sound.
My husband and I have an eight-month-old Siberian who is simply delightful. I am very allergic to cats, but I am allergic to her less so than previous cats. Nonetheless, we vacuum regularly, change bedding weekly, and have invested in hepa filters in several rooms. At 8 months, her personality continues to evolve. She is not a lap cat, but is very affectionate at night and loves to have her belly rubbed. She is a talker — though it’s not a traditional meow. She lives to play and has more toys than most children. The laser pointer is her favorite and provides her with a good work-out. She is by far the sweetest cat we have ever had. We have not been able to break her of clawing the sofa, but she is still a kitten and I haven’t given up, We would not trade this sweet girl for the world. My husband, who was not so involved with our previous cats, adores her and she follows him around like he’s her idol. She is a wonderful addition to our family.
I rescued a 6 month old siberian..I have two other cats approximately 1 year old…took a few days for them to finially accept each other but now they are wrestling and chasing each other..she sleeps beside my pillow..so far I see a few traits I have read about but not others..she doesn’t like water, she prefers to cuddle up beside me rather than being on my lap..she is very sweet n loves to play..
My Siberian was a fun loving highly intelligent cat. She showed great ability to engage and learn including to play fetch with a bouncy ball. She would carry the ball around in her mouth. She also adapted to commands including no when people didn’t want her to rub against them. However I found that I was working too much for her taste and often come home to destroyed loaves of bread but never eaten. She would make a mess to show her disdain or hurt.
I am owned by 3 Siberians & one Maine Coon. I have noticed on two major online adoption sites that cats who are not Siberians are advertised as such. Siberians are not meowers; rather, they make noises that are very distinct. If your cat has a regular meow, it’s doubtful you have a Siberian. Only one of my three Siberians is extremely affectionate; it depends on the individual cat. But the round shape, hair between the toes, three layer coat, unique sounds, & mane should let you know if you’re owned by a true Siberian Forest Cat.
A few years ago this gorgeous Maine Coon showed up on our doorstep in the middle of winter. He was clean, well fed, perfectly groomed and distrustful of women ? We’re cat people so we let him inside while we searched for his owners. Thank God no one came forward because we had named him Meatloaf and fallen in love!
We took him to the vet and he told us that this massive guy was only about a year old!
A few years went by and a good friend of ours with severe cat allergies told us that Meatloaf did not cause her to have a reaction like our other cats did. She asked us if we had ever heard of a “Siberian Forest cat” and I said no…
So I did some googling and I was SHOCKED. These cats looked EXACTLY like our Meaty. He wasnt a “round” Maine Coon at all. He’s a Siberian! Meatloaf has all the traits – round ears with a little tuft, super long toe fur, round eyes, barrel chest, thick ruff, trapezoid shaped head, wide face. He had also formed a close relationship with our girl Pixie. They were definitely a couple, which is also unique Siberian behavior.
I am still blown away and mystified about his backstory. These cats are rare and kittens cost over $1,000. Where the heck did this guy come from?
I got my Siberian from the shelter a year ago. She is now getting close to two years old, and she doesn’t like to be held or petted, even though she follows us around as if she is asking for attention. She loves to be rowdy and often streaks around like a Tasmanian Devil. She is very playful, but her scratching things up is becoming a problem. I’ve been very consistent with the usual training methods, but I think this breed might be one that you would have to declaw. I know cat people would cringe at the thought, but I love her and would still like to have a house and furniture.
I had one cat who wanted to scratch my furniture. Two things worked: aluminum foil on the furniture where he would scratch & the pet spray for furniture that you can buy online or in pet stores. After a month or so of those, I could stop. And he stopped! Please do not declaw. Most vets will not do the procedure. It’s very painful.
Put scratching post by the furniture. That way when the urge strikes they have something to scratch. Never declaw, it’s just plain cruel.
I applaud you for rescuing you from a shelter , but to even think of declawing a cat is NOT ok . Would you be willing to amputate your fingers ?? ITS VERY MUCH THE SAME THING … for furniture , a material item? Maybe you aren’t informed of the consequences – not only is it ILLEGAL , but you are actually causing permanent physical, emotional & behavioral damage to the poor kitty. That poor baby will end up having not only physical repercussions, but behavior issues as well, it will negatively affect the baby in every way NEGATIVELY.. all because you put more value on a piece of furniture… please research this … it’s illegal for a reason . With all due respect , if you make furniture a priority over a beautiful cat – then maybe you aren’t ready to be a pet parent =^-^=
My Gold Siberian walked right in our house one day and plopped in front of my feet on her back purring. We live in a rural area and think someone dropped her off. Well she found us and we love her. Sometimes I’m so amazed by how cuddly she is. We watch tv and even go on car ride together. She waits by the front door for us to get home and follows us around. I laughed at a comment because our Siberian will also dart around like a Tanzanian devil. She is simply love – so sensitive and loving. Every morning at 5:30 am she will sit and purr to wake for food. She does it – and everything in the most loving way sometimes I can’t believe she’s a cat. She loves people and will even play fetch. That’s how I know she’s a Siberian – plus she’s gorgeous almond green eye orange playful loving tabby – ❤️
We have 2 Siberian cats who are best friends! 3 years apart in age, but get along just great. My husband is very allergic to cats, but with the Siberian breed, he has no trouble at all which is why we have 2 who live indoors 24/7. They are both very affectionate and will sit on our laps when we have dinner. They are beautiful and bring a lot of fun to us everyday.
We purchased a just 3-year-old Siberian female who was a retired queen who never delivered a litter, but rather self-aborted, so the breeder wanted to sell her. She came with the name “Sweet Pea”. We were so excited to be able to get her! We did everything we could to help her feel loved and comfortable with us so whe would settle in well. The first 3-4 days she spent entirely in the half basement that we have, too terrified to come upstairs. We had no other cats anymore, our house was/is small so we couldn’t figure out what was going on. She refused to eat anything for 3/4 days. Finally we were able to hand feed her a bit of kibble (same stuff she came to us eating). She then eagerly accepted a few treats with malt flavoring in them. She also would eat Instinct Raw Bites. She refused the wet food she came to us eating, but finally accepted some ProPlan and especially Soulistic (made by Weruva). We give her a variety of both dry, wet, raw and treats. Her behavior was erratic the first year. It took her forever to trust us or allow us to have her in our laps or hold her. She still doesn’t like to be held very much. She will sit in our laps nowadays but originally I had to entice her to do so with treats and raw bites. It’s become a tradition, although now she often jumps in our laps even without the promise of treats and raw bites. We play with her a lot and she plays with toys on her own. Her favorites are interactive such as the laser wand and other wand toys…. especially those with ribbons. We keep the wand toys put away when we are not supervising. We bought her a double decker condo and a cat tree and have given her multiple cozy places to nap. She loves to sleep with one or the other of us. We renamed her Zebbah (Persian for “A Known Beauty”) because she is absolutely gorgeous with her brown mackerel tabby coat and deep green almond-shaped eyes. She does not like to be combed or brushed or bathed, but she every 8 weeks she does allow a groomer at our vet’s office to trim her coat and nails then spray her with water and brush her. She isn’t the Siberian we had hoped for, but we have accommodated her ways and have learned to love her anyway. She went through a lot before she became ours including being spayed at 3 years of age after multiple self-aborts following breeding. The breeder kept her in a large cage for 10 days after she was spayed and her first day out of the cage was the day we picked her up. So the poor thing was literally terrified in the beginning. After months of trying with her, we almost gave her away. The breeder was no help to us. I found another breeder willing to take her from us if her behavior did not change. The new breeder really helped us with her suggestions. We’re very glad because otherwise we would no longer have this beautiful, intelligent, sensitive, playful and at times actually now loving creature. My dream is to be able to get her to allow me to put her in a harness, attach a leash and take her outside with me occasionally. So far that isn’t happening, but I haven’t given up hope yet. Just don’t want to make her fear me in any way for attempting to get her used to a harnass. If it never comes to be, we will accept that. She has really grown on us. We love her very much now and she has come to trust us so much over what she did the first year we had her. She turns 5 in 3 months. We look forward to many more wonderful years with her. I have moderate to severe allergies. I do have some reactions to her, but I take the precautions of washing after I handle her, vacuuming frequently, having her sprayed with water and brushed at least every 8 weeks and I take antihistamines at night so that when she sleeps with me I can tolerate her. What a strong girl she is !!
What a great story. You did a good thing, she needed someone and you where there for her. My wife and I have rescued many dogs and cats over the years and one thing I have learned is that you must adapt for them because the amount of emotional trauma can be great and they can’t tell us what’s wrong.
I have a 21 year old Snowshoe named Trouble. She is a starting to become more and more ill but she had a good life and I will miss her when she leaves me.
We absolutely love our Siberian Forest cat. He is affectionate, playful, smart and so much fun. He let’s our kids do anything to him and he seems to love it. My son puts him on his feet and does leg lifts with him. He just sits there going up and down. I’ve never had such a laid-back and also playful cat. He loves playing with toys. He’s an acrobat. However, he is not hypoallergenic. But he’s worth the allergy shots. He brings our family lots of joy and love.
We have a 3.5 yr old Siberian with color points, which we have had since she was a kitten. She has latched on to me in a big way, but not so much to my husband which is a big mystery. She loves to play but not enough on her own. She hardly ever speaks. And she has a sense of humor. She does not like water and only likes some dogs. She is a good pet. She was quite sick for a few months with a food allergy to chicken and seafood. She is well now with a restricted diet. I am very allergic to cats in general but not to this one.
I had my Siberian for 19 years, the breed is wonderful. It has been about 2 years since I lost him. I think about getting another one, but at my age(72) I just dont know. He was great with my dogs(Malamutes and Shibas). I got him and one of my Malamutes as a puppy and kitten and they were the best of buddies. I would joke that Sauron(Siberian) was the best dog I ever had.
I have a 11 year old SIMBA, I have never seen such an intelligent, cat understands many words. Response quickly when we call. He gave so much affection to my sick husband and to me. I love him so much. If anyone wants to adopt or buy a cat a Siberian is the one.
I totally agree my Siberian is so brilliant, she totally understands what I’m saying. So loyal and affectionate they’re right by your side like a dog. So furry and soft they rarely shed and are hypoallergenic .I’m allergic to cats and I have no issues with my Siberian.
Our loving 1 year old “FUZZ” Does the triple purr! And also sleeps in his water dish. Along with attacking the toes of whoever is in the tub. ? He’s also like a pygmy Siberian, only weighing in at 9 pounds. He’s so comical he makes me laugh daily!
Some person abandon a kitten in my yard. He was so small his eyes hadn’t changed yet. I took him in the house, bathed him and 3 months later he finally lost his baby fangs. I figure he’s 4 months old now. I’ve had a lot of experience with felines but this little guy already weighs 7 lbs. Is longer then my shorthair domestic and has all the looks and traits of the Siberian. He’s wonderful. Wish your site accepted photos.
I have a six month old neutered Siberian cat and he is really stubborn and I call him a bonehead because he doesn’t listen or believe what I ask him to do or not to do, he just simply ignores me. His energy levels are at the ceiling and he needs something to do all the time. He is absolutely fearless and really clever. He likes water. He bullies two older main coons all the time and doesn’t listen them either. When clipping his nails he tries to escape and hisses and groans. He is affectionate only occasionally but likes my really young and really noisy nice and nephew. At the moment he is a handful but I do hope that time helps.
I got my Siberian when she was 6 weeks old of course they lie to me and said she was 12 weeks old so I blame a lot of her issues to that.I’ve always only had cats in my life and she was hands down the worst aggressive, stubborn kitten I’ve ever had. She would constantly attack my hands and feet which I blame them from taking her away from her mother so young but by the time she hit a year and a half it is not the same cat .she is so affectionate, so obedient, so smart and now one of the best cats I’ve had. sometimes I can’t believe this is the same cat. So I think maybe they just outgrow their horrible kitten personality lol. thank God they’re the cutest things ever to help you endure all the kitten nightmares. Hang in there I think the change is coming
We’ve own a siberian cat for 3 years now and we love him! It’s a magnificent animal, very affectionate and great with our 2 kids (now 6 and 8 yo). They love playing together and he’s never agressive with the kids, even when they are rough. He’s extremely sociable and doesn’t like to be alone. Whenever someone is in the house, he will be nearby. Even during our kids birthday parties, with 8-10 kids running and screaming around, he still wants to see us and play. I’ve never seen a cat that loves company so much.
As for the allergies, I’m a little bit allergic to cats, and my wife is very allergic. When we got him, I had no reaction, but my wife reacted for about 2 weeks, which got us worried that we could not keep him. But then her body seemed to get use to it and the reactions gradually disappeared. After a month, she could put her face in his fur without any problem!
Grooming is not as easy as the article says in our case. He often gets knots in his fur, and we have a hard time brushing him well as he does not really enjoy it, especially on the belly (close to the legs and below the neck). We now shave his belly and it helped quite a lot. He sheds a lot, especially during spring so brushing is mandatory.
I must also mention that our Siberian is very vocal. He meows a LOT! He almost seems to talk to us sometimes and it’s cute. It’s less cute when he does it at 3am sometimes….
Overall, a great cat to own; we love him!!
We have an incredible 3 1/2-year-old spade female we named “Tasha.” She is stunningly beautiful and an absolute joy to live with. We originally picked this breed because our daughter is allergic to cats; unfortunately Tasha didn’t turn out to be hypo-allergenic. That is her only negative, however. She is very social, playful, strong, affectionate, and has lots of personality. We adore her and would recommend a Siberian to anyone who can commit to keeping one indoors for safety and health reasons, which we do.
We just got a purebred Siberian kitten a few months ago. We purposely chose this breed for their hypoallergenic reputation and their look. He has exceeded our expectations. We all adore him. He tolerates a lot from my two younger children. He loves to play. He doesn’t mind the water and will actually jump in the bath or shower with one of us. He doesn’t love getting bathed but tolerates it better than any cat I’ve ever had. My only complaint is that he frequently gets poop on his legs. Hoping this improves.
Oh no! This is one of my worries about having these cats. Are they clean?? Are they able to clean themselves or getting poop all over?? That would be hard to deal with ?
We cat our two guys a “cowboy cut” which trims their hand quarters which keeps them super clean.  We never have to bath them.  They constantly groom themselves and each other.  For those of you that have a skittish cat, you may need two!  Makes a huge difference!
We have a female Siberian that occasionally has a poopy butt. We’ve found it’s usually due to diet. Certain canned foods with carbs or wheat maybe, or maybe eating outdoor stuff or counter food, or not enough fresh water. When we use a good grain-free dry food and supplement with plenty of protein (she loves roast beef, canned salmon with the skin and bones, chicken scraps on the bone with gristle and skin) she’s clean.
oh wow really!!
which breeder did you purchase him from?
A Person My Siberian was not affectionate at all, and sounds like yours. When he matured he developed affectionate behavior but it took a long time and patience. He didn’t like being touched or being near me but now he’s snuggly and my shadow with typical Siberian behavior.
I am convinced my baby was part Siberian, so many traits match this breed, the one part that is strikingly standing out is that they are known for their sensitivity….My little girl has just passed away but had the looks of a tabby Siberian………… I will be looking to get a Siberian Puss cat once I have stopped grieving
Lisa. Yes. Three months nothing at all Now, asthma and hives. I’m hoping its combined with the ragweed that’s high right now and it will subside soon. Allergist thinks the levels in my house are now up from kitty just being here. Now, allegra and inhaler. Possibly shots if not better in 6 weeks. I wrote a more detailed story but I dont think it posted.
Hi Annie! I was wondering how you’re doing with your Siberian kitten? Are you having any allergic reactions from your kitten? I hope all is well! How old is she? Thanks so much!!! ?
I have a Siberian kitten, 7 months old. She is rarely affectionate, she’s loud, meows all the time, hates water, and is only affectionate at night. I also have 2 dogs who both want to be her friend, but she hates them. I’m not trying to say that this article is lying, but there is cases where it isn’t true.
A lot of the cat’s personality depends upon the first few weeks of its like. Cat’s are very much formed in their relations to humans by the time they are 3 months old. Most breeders do not release a kitten until it is 12 weeks old so in effect your cat’s personality is formed by the time you get it.
She’s only 7 months old.. Her personality may still come out as she grows up. My Siberian cat is very similar to what was described. He even plays fetch. But he doesn’t like to sit in laps, he cuddles next to you instead. My point is every cat has their own personality and this article is just stating the general characteristics the breed has. Just because your cat is different doesn’t mean it isn’t true. I found this article pretty spot on besides a few things but like I said every cat is unique.
My Siberian, that I bought from a breeder, is very much like yours. He is not a lap-sitter, but will lie down next to me on the couch. He’s always in the room I’m in or in the next room staring into my room. He follows me around the house. Initially I was upset when I read all the posts about other people’s Siberians sitting on their laps, so I called the breeder. She told me that each of her cats have their own personalities. Some are lap-sitters, some just want “to be near”.
Our cat loves to play fetch. He “goes crazy” over the birds at the feeder, and sometimes runs around the house making a gutteral sound. We entertain him, and he certainly entertains us! He is a lynx, seal point, and has beautiful blue eyes. He’ll be 3 in November, and is an enjoyable pet!
My wife and I have had tabby ‘s and even a domestic white Bangel but this little girl is something else. She is a doll , we got her at an Animal rescue of all places she was only 6 weeks old. So playful .
I have a 7 month old also, and she is the opposite of everything you have mentioned! It might be you! All the breeders cats and kittens have mirrored attributes to all those mentioned. It’s possible your cat is not a true Siberian, just saying!
Mine used to be like that as a kitten, but now as an adult cat, she’s become ever so affectionate. Maybe you just need to give the kitty some time !
Are you sure its a Siberian? Doesn’t sound like one. My 14 year old Siberian has always been affectionate. Always wants to be in my lap or on my shoulder or laying on my chest if I’m laying down. She’s so quite you never know she’s around and her and my dog are best buds. You may have a Maine Coone.
My male Siberian was the exact same way with my 2 dogs, and my other cat. He was a 5 week old stray when we found him, and it took him a little while to finally warm up to us and the other animals, but now he’s just like one of the dogs lol…it might take your’s some time as well. Good luck! ☺️?
My Siberian baby is 4 months old and at times I feel unloved because she ignores me LOL. She’s also scared of water most especially running water. She gets super scared whenever I have a visitor; that’s when I get my scratches. It’s so hard to trim her nails and brushing her belly.
Right now, I can say that she has improved as every time I’d say “Come here” and she comes, then I’d give her a treat. Or I’ll pick her up and put her on my lap then I give her a treat. Same when trimming her nails, giving her a bath and brushing her belly fur. I guess it’s all about giving treats hahaha!
Also, the color of the coat could be a factor according to the breeder as well as from what I’ve read online. Torbies and calico got cattitude so they’re sassy and more independent. Mine is a silver tabby so I have great hopes for her to be an affectionate cat.
For the scratches, as weird as it sounds, it lets me know that it’s time for me to trim her nails XD.
Also, training her has its rewards. Before, I call her name when chasing her so she associates her name on chasing her. Like if I call her name, instead of coming to me she’d run away from me. I’m now trying to change tactics so she won’t get confused. She still runs away when I call her by her name but it doesn’t happen much anymore.
I’m also using spray bottle to deter her from doing something and I’d say it works most of the time. Just seeing the spray bottle makes her avoid that area.
She’s super active. I like playing with her using teasers as we both enjoy it. This is when I laugh out loud the most because she is just adorable. Like she’d run from the corner of the room then jumps high towards the teaser, miss it and slides on the floor.
She’s still a kitten and in time, she’ll mature and behave like an adult cat as described on this website. Also, training really helps. We “argue” several times a day most especially when trimming her nails but I’d insist, letting her know that I’m the boss here LOL then give her treats. We get to know each other every single day. ?
My Siberian is a bit of the same. He’s only affectionate in the morning, doesn’t like water much, he is super loud and meows all the time if he doesn’t get what he wants, has a BIG and quirky personality, is so mischievous and in to everything he shouldn’t be, but we love him so much. But this cat is super high maintenance.
We got our Siberian from the most reputable breeder in the country. They raise their kittens in their home and are socialized, well trained and loved before released to their forever homes no sooner than 16 weeks. Cats are like humans – born with our own unique personalities.
I’m going to say most likely then you didn’t get a real Siberian unless they come with papers you’re never sure they can just tell you it is one and it might look like one but since it looks like so many other breeds she might not actually be Siberian
My Siberian cat, Nina, is 4yrs old. I’m not allergic to her. I had a regular house cat in the past that I was very allergic too. I don’t notice much shedding either. I brush her several time a week. She is a great pet!
Has anyone had the experience of allergies developing to a Siberian cat over time? Even though initially the reaction was very slight?
Yes, when we first got out Siberian my allergies were not bad at all. After we had the cat for about 3-4 months, I noticed my allergies were getting worse. I think it’s because the allergens had built up in the house. We try to vacuum twice a week and are going to get rid of our wall to wall carpet. We also use one of those sticky tape lint brushes on the furniture daily. I have been allergic to cats most of my life and I love our Siberian. We got her for companionship and as a therapy cat for our daughter. Siberians are a wonderful breed and I have no regrets. ?
My husband, who has cat allergies and sometimes asthma, has no problems with our Siberian cat. Amazingly. He found us and demanded we be his new family. We found his original family, but they had replaced him with 2 other cats. He kept running away from them. Lucky us. We never would have had a cat, otherwise. We love this guy to death.
We have a 2 year old Siberian and she’s such a typical Siberian. She’ll drink water running from the tap or just stick her head into the running water, drops toys in her water dish, and tackles us when we’re trying to get out of the shower. We have a ledge overlooking the living room and she’s jumped from it more than a few times. She doesn’t meow often, but when she does, it’s a small meow that sounds more like a baby kitten than a grown cat. When she plays, she loves to do flips in the air and bring thrown toys back, when she feels like it. And her cuddles always start with “making biscuits” on our stomach or legs with her big ol paws, which can be kind of painful sometimes. And in the winter, when her tail is really thick, she likes to whack our legs with it, and again, can be kind of painful depending on how much enthusiasm she puts into it. She’ll watch YouTube videos about birds all day if we let her and loves when we hide her toys for her to find. You know, just typical Siberian stuff.
We have 4 month old male Siberian kitten. I had cars in the past but he is really special. Very intelligent, quite and well behaved. He needs a lot of play time and wants to g out a lot. Does not seem to be scared of anything. I am not sure at what time I can let him out on his own. The article says that they are happy in safe and enclosed space so I am not sure what to do in this case and when I can let him go out by himself. We take him out on a leash and he really behaves like a dog :-)) happy to go out for a walk :-))
This reply applies to all cats. Some breeds thrive indoors. Outdoor cats are proven to have a shorter lifespan. All cats can be happy indoors. You may also consider leash training your cat for short walks outdoors.  I live in Maine; it gets cold here. All my cats have been indoor cats, I had one bound and determined to go out every time I I opened the front door.  One morning I was heading outside for some firewood, and I decided to let her out on the porch. It was thirty-five degrees below zero. She took about two or three steps and that was the end of her desperate attempts to go outside. Works every time.
Whatever you decide to do, keep him safe, indoors or out.
I have a Siberian and she is SO affectionate! I was not expecting her to be so snuggly! I just wanted to add that to the list.
I love the habit of a Siberian cat ???
We have a 9 month old Siberian kitten called Muffin. She is an absolute hoot. Runs around the house at 100 miles per hour and jumps onto anything she can find. She is a real snigglebug, and love being brushed. She loves water. Its a race to get to the bathroom before she jump into the sink and claims it as her home. Loves drinking from water taps. My wife was making supper one night and she cut up a couple of raw broccoli stalks for me. ( I’m not a lover of broccoli). Muffin get up on the counter a little later, and took one of the stalks. We looked high. and low, but, couldn’t find it. A few mornings later as I was sitting on the side of the bed, Muffing dropped the the piece of shriveled up broccoli beside me. We really had a good laugh over this episode. Muffin is a real little character, and we love her to pieces. Hope you enjoy this little cats tale. Cheers. Doug & Brenda.
Ours is not a typical Siberian. We acquired her at the age of 3 (a retired queen who never brought a litter to term but would instead, self-abort, and the breeder didn’t want to try again). She had been spayed 10 days before we picked her up. Even still had her stitches in. She was nothing like the Siberians described on this website. The first 2 weeks she hid in our basement and would only eat if we hand-fed her kibble and treats. If we tried to go near her, she’d run away. She was basically the cat from hell for almost 2 full years…. batting us (drawing blood), even biting us just because we tried to pet her. One time she slashed my face. She is a very powerful and spirited girl. After some research and a few conversations with another cat breeder, I learned that she had simply been through too much, too quickly, and was severely stressed, probably was missing her other Siberian companions whom she groomed all the time, and her belly was probably painful for her. Am happy to say that now after going on 3 years with us, she is finally becoming calmer and more affectionate. Still, she does not like to be groomed or picked up. We have her professionally groomed about every 2 months. I would prefer to groom her myself as I love grooming cats, but she won’t allow it except for the occasional soft bristle brush that I dampen and run over her fur. If I come near her with a comb, she bolts. Early on I had tried to loosen and remove some mats from her belly and it probably hurt her, so I don’t blame her at all from running when she sees a comb. I also miss that she doesn’t enjoy being picked up, but she makes up for it now by jumping in my lap and giving me “kissies” with her head. She prefers my husband’s lap during the day, but at night she is my girl and sleeps with me. Allergy-wise, I find it interesting that while she doesn’t cause upper respiratory distress for me, her presence does cause lower respiratory distress for me as in a tickle in my throat. I also must wash after handling her or else my hands itch. Eventually I may need to re-home her but for now I just take antihistamines. She can be hilariously funny at times, running around the house like a crazed loon….sometimes even howling a little bit. It hasn’t been confirmed by her vet, but I suspect she may have hyperesthesia. This past year we purchased a 5-foot diameter nylon “tent” that she loves to sit in, play and observe wildlife. We supervise her outings in the tent. Sometimes she walks out onto our deck with me and doesn’t run away or anything. One time she had gotten into some catnip before one of our “free outings”, got away from me, scaled an oak tree about 80 feet up and couldn’t figure out how to come down. After a couple of hours it became clear she had no idea how to get down so I called a tree service, got in their bucket, and retrieved my beautiful girl who was so tired that when my husband carried her into the house and placed her on the floor, her legs shot out from underneath her and she just laid their for a while panting. We never have those “free outings” anymore….. wink wink. She is content with her tent or being on the deck with me. Have not been able to leash train her at all. Even tried the “Kitty Holster”. She is very good about obeying me…. and the one thing she does that actually sounds Siberian, is that she is, indeed, very dog-like. She is also very beautiful… a brown mackerel tabby with incredible deep green eyes.
All praise to you for persevering with such a difficult cat. It can indeed take time.
Our Siberian was another cat who had been through too much too young. For her first few years with us she was extremely nervous, though fortunately she is a completely gentle cat. Now she is completely devoted, sits with me for long periods, does “greetings and courtesies” (headbumps and shoulder lunges) several times a day and is generally a very happy lady.
But our Maine Coon…. hoo boy! Her first few weeks of life were hell for her, because she was raised in very overcrowded conditions and she was the smallest kitten. Her litter-mates and the kittens from another mother’s litter who were all thrown in together beat her up constantly. So she learned, from the moment her eyes were open, that life consisted of fighting. When we got her we could not even stroke her, because she interpreted any move towards her as a possible attack and she would lash out or bite. She grew into a big strong hellcat who was fairly dangerous to be anywhere near. Well, we fed her and told her we loved her and let her take her own time. Now we have this ridiculously affectionate hugely fluffy cat who purrs at us all the time, flomps on me full-length twice a day and rumbles at me thunderously, demanding fuss and affection and is generally a wonderful companion. Between the two of them I often feel overwhelmed by large tawny cats.
Once a cat’s trust in humans is broken it takes a long time to heal. It can take up to five years in our experience, so if your Siberian accepted you after only three years you obviously did all the right things. It takes kindness and patience and a willingness to let the cat proceed at their own pace. But it is worth it. I think your Siberian definitely found the right human.
She sounds lovely. I have an 8 month old male and he is a delight.
I forgot to mention Woodstock is 8 mos old and runs from room to room launching himself off the walls. He is wild and amazing and a sweetheart all wrapped into an 8 mos old kitten. He brightens my days every day. I am retired and we are pals
I just read your story. I recently adopted a three-year-old described at the shelter as a domestic long hair.  Due to extensive matting, she was shaved at the shelter.  she kind of resembled a very odd-looking poodle. The first thing I noticed was her size, I adopted a three-year-old male a year earlier and he is a normal size. Nelly is easily twice his size.
I recently lost my eighteen-year-old Maine Coon Cat, she was a good size but small for a Coon.  I also noted that Nelly wasn’t really fat just large and quite flexible for her size. At first she was kind of stand-offish and cowered or even struck out with a claw.  She also hid for the first few days, only coming out for food. There was very little tention between Nelly and my male. They soon became inseparable. I am disabled so I’m home most of the time. After a few months of special attention and maintaining a peaceful environment. she soon became not only affectionate but down right obsessed with me. When I’m sleeping or just watching TV she likes to sprawl out on top of me, course her size sometimes requires some adjustments to eliminate the pain from her weight.
I’m wondering if Nelly is actually a Siberian Forest cat. I never heard of the breed before but upon doing some research, I opened a website with other cats built exactly the same as Nelly. The nervousness and shying away when trying to pet them and the occasional swat with a sharp claw is a normal pattern for these cats at first.
As for the relation with my much smaller male short hair, it’s hilarious at times. She gets running so fast then suddenly realizes she needs to stop, not always an easy task.  Of course, coming from the shelter, I felt the need to spoil them with nice toys and nice window beds to while away the days. Unfortunately, her 20 inch cat bed is painfully too small for Nelly. So I purchased a small dogs bed which should arrive today, hopefully when she lies down, she won’t have her head and hind legs hanging over the edges.
Whether or not she is a Siberian isn’t relevant to me, as long as she and Rascal, (the other cat) are happy.
Hello! I have a similar issue with my cat 🙂
Do you think there is a possibility that she had trauma before you bought her? And it could help to bing a cat behaviourist just in case. I hope she feels better!
Hi! My Boo, an 8 year old, sounds remarkably similar… I tell friends that love cats that he is much more like a dog than cat. Ive been around domestic cats my entire 57 years and he is NOTHING like any other that I’ve had the grace to know.  Boo is one of the three that live with me (I don’t own anyone!) and he is his own person, entirely… he is completely non violent, but…. will play and have an occasional argument that he won’t back down to.  I feel that he would thrive without the other two felines, being content to be the only kitty.  He LOVES FISH and he taught me how to poach fish to perfection!  It is truly a joy to make him what he loves, which is mahi or swordfish, gently cooked to ‘just barely’ done.  When I got him from the rescue at 8 weeks of age, he preferred solitude, sleeping in the box he came home in, which broke my heart for him, haha… I feel as though he has been through something in his earliest experience, but now, after these years, he has come to be quite the smuggler and is so cute and playful!  He’s a really large guy, and has weighed in at up to 25lbs!  He is chunky, but, is very large and very strong.  He could easily overtake either of his roommates, but is ultra peaceful toward them.  He loves me so much and never wants to be anywhere except where I am.  He chooses toys as his own and when we play, sometimes he grabs his favorite toy in his mouth and makes a peculiar meow/howl and carries off the toy into another room to enjoy it as his own.  He sleeps with me religiously every night, usually between my legs, on top of the comforter and 3 or 4 nights a week he will meow to me and come up and snuggle against my chest and lay his head over my arm in complete trust and love… I melt into his generous love and ive wept so many tears of joy to share this high level intimacy with him in this beautiful life:). I could go on and on because I’m completely in love with Boo, and I know he is a gift and some kind of Angel sent from God and we get to share some of the sweetest moments in this life with one another.  Im wondering if you can relate to this level of togetherness that he and I share, and if you are reminded of your friend by what ive written…  well… take care and give your friend a big snuggle for us…
I thought it was really cool what was said about how humans have low sensitivity to Siberian cats! My best friend is horribly allergic to cats and so I might look into this for him. It’s sad that he’s a animal lover, but very allergic to them.
I am allergic to most cats however I have a 14 year old Siberian baby and have never had problem at all. I didn’t even know they were ” nonallergenic”. I just knew from day one I never had a symptom and she’s in my face, literally, all the time. Your friend would love one if he’s an animal lover.
Myself, as well!  Have always been allergic to cats, however, my daughter brought home a Siberian and I have never experienced any type of allergic reaction to him, even when he gets very close to my face.  In fact, he sleeps above my head on my pillow every night.  He’s very mischievous, but he’s not yet quite a year old.
I am extremely allergic to cats becoming asthmatic and breaking out in hives when near them, on a scale of 1 to 10 my reaction is an 8.5. I love cats so looked into my options, research let me to Siberian Forest Cats and a breeder near me “Nicholas-Siberian Cats” . They were extremely helpful and had a great blood line so I took a leap of faith and got a kitten, it’s now been several months. My allergic reaction to the cat is about a 1.0 , he is on my lap all the time and sleeps with me with no problems. I rub my face in him as he sleeps on my chest and he feely rubs his head near my eyes as he is marking me. I don’t even worry about washing my hands anymore after I petting him and putting my hands near my eyes. I could have never done with another cat . If my eyes do ever get slightly itchy I just rinse them out , I’m not even sure if it’s even the cat.
Hi I just want you to know that people are still allergic to them.  My bro had to give his up because of severe allergy.  However he is fine with the short hair folded ear type, called Scottish fold cat
We have a 9 month old red/white Siberian kitten. He is very friendly and sociable – he lets all kids and adults pat him. He is bold and fearless- he doesn’t hide from guests. In fact, he would go near the guests to check them out. He doesn’t flinch when he sees dogs. He would be so calm as we push him in a stroller, with large and small dogs passing by. He is intelligent- he knows how to come, roll, shake paws, hi-5, lay down and sit on command. He is a guard/ watch cat- he patrols our house day and night, and guards the front and back door while we are sleeping. We love him so much!!
Hi, I have a 3 month old now- how did you train those commands? My guy is well behaved but he seems to clever for conditioning. He’s already not interested in a laser pointer and he eats when he feels like it, even when rewarded treats he’ll ignore them until he wants them.
I have found that using a dog clicker helps when training a cat of any breed. I myself have an 11 month old siberian cross domestic white cat and although he is quite opposite in regards to yours (loves anything that moves e.g. laser pointers, and will do anything for food!), he responds very well to the sound of clicker. I personally don’t allow my cat to enter the kitchen, especially as he knows his food is in there, but with the use of a clicker and treats over time he has accepted his boundaries and now sits just before the kitchen floor and waits until I come out. When it comes to feeding time, again with the use of the clicker, he sits and waits. He knows he won’t receive his food until he stops meowing and hears the clicker.
--------------------------------------------------
Siberian cats, glamorous natives of Siberia’s subarctic taiga, owe their thick, protective coats to their harsh environment. Highly affectionate and playful when they want to be, these cats don’t need much exercise and are just as happy snuggling up with their humans as they are chasing a laser toy. They’ll follow you everywhere and gladly participate in whatever you’re doing, whether you like it or not. If you crave a warm cuddle buddy, the Siberian cat may be the perfect feline family member.
When considering a Siberian, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Siberian kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Siberian breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
From Russia with love: that’s the Siberian, a glamorous native cat from the taiga of Siberia, a forested area with a subarctic climate that no doubt contributed to this cat’s long, thick, protective coat. The cats have been known in Russia for some 1,000 years and often figure in Russian folktales.
As in every culture, the cats were prized for their hunting ability by householders and shopkeepers. They kept mice and rats well away from stores of grain and other foods. Siberians were first imported to the United States in 1990 and were recognized by The International Cat Association in 1996. The American Cat Fanciers Association accepted the breed in 1999, followed by the Cat Fanciers Association in 2006. The breed is gaining popularity because it has a reputation for being hypoallergenic—which may or may not be the case, depending on the individual person.
This cat typically weighs 8 to 17 pounds — and sometimes more.
The Siberian’s heart is as warm as his homeland is cold. He loves people and wants to be near them, so expect this affectionate cat to follow you around, including to the bathroom, and to “help” you with all of your reading, TV viewing, computer work and meal prep. Sitting in your lap while you comb his fur may well be the highlight of his day.
When you come home from work, he might not have a martini waiting, but he will be pleased to tell you all about his day in quiet, pleasant trills and chirps, interspersed with a few meows and purrs. Guests will find him to be a genial host; this is not typically a cat who is shy in the presence of strangers.
Besides being loving and attentive, the Siberian is also active and playful. He will instigate games of fetch by bringing you a favorite toy to throw. Any item can become a plaything for this clever cat, so keep jewelry or other potentially intriguing items out of his sight. Teaching him tricks is a fun and easy way to challenge his agile brain. Because of his heritage as a forest dweller, he likes playing with water—perhaps it’s a genetic memory of going fishing for his supper. Don’t be surprised if he enjoys splashing you in the tub, drinking from a fountain or faucet, or making puddles by batting his paw in his water dish.
As befits a working and hunting cat, he’s highly athletic and you may find him balancing atop a doorway or propelling himself to the highest point in the room. In fact, Siberian coaches may well be the secret to the success of Russian gymnasts. Activity and noise won’t bother him a bit. His calm nature gives him the potential to be a therapy cat. If nothing else, he will be happy to snuggle with you when you’re down with a cold or other illness. And although he loves attention, he’s not needy and will wait patiently until you have time to devote to him.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Siberians are generally healthy due to their natural breeding. Here are some common problems that might affect a Siberian cat:
The Siberian’s thick triple coat should be combed or brushed a couple of times a week to prevent tangles or mats. The coat will shed seasonally in the spring and fall, and you may need to groom more frequently during that time. A bath is rarely necessary, which is a good thing because the coat is highly water-resistant. It can be difficult to get a Siberian wet enough to shampoo him.
Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection. Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Most of the Siberian’s growth occurs in his first year and a half of life. Your kitten’s breeder may recommend that you feed him kitten food during that time to make sure he gets enough nourishment.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene, and a clean litter box will also help to keep the long coat clean. It’s a good idea to keep a Siberian as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Siberians who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it. If possible, build your Siberian a large outdoor enclosure where he can jump and climb safely.
The Siberian is notable for having a long triple coat with guard hairs (the outer coat), awn hairs (the middle part of the coat) and a downy undercoat. He has an abundant ruff around the neck, thick but slightly shorter hair on the shoulder blades and lower part of the chest, and thick fur on the belly and britches (the upper hind legs). The undercoat thickens in cold weather.
The coat comes in all colors and combinations of colors, with or without white. He looks powerful and alert, but gazes out at the world with a sweet expression. His head is a modified wedge with rounded contours—broad at the top and narrowing slightly at the muzzle. Medium-large ears are well furnished with tufts of fur. The nearly round eyes can be green, gold, green-gold, or copper. White Siberians or Siberians with white patches may have blue or odd eyes.
The “hefty, hefty, hefty” slogan could have been written with the Siberian in mind. This is a medium-size to large cat weighing 8 to 17 pounds and sometimes more. It can take the Siberian up to five years to reach his full size and coat. His body is muscular and he has big round paws with tufts of fur and a thickly furred tail.
The Siberian has a bold temperament, and nothing much ruffles his composure. These characteristics make him an excellent choice for a family with kids. No nighttime monsters will get past the Siberian on guard at the foot of a child’s bed. He is happy to live with other cats and cat-friendly dogs, too, as long as they recognize that he’s in charge. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!










Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Massimo Cattaneo, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 3, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Siberian cat is an anomaly. After all, the ancestor of our pets is the African Wild Cat (Felis silvestris lybica), which isn’t a cat we’d associate with the origin of the Siberian. The African Wild Cat lived in a hotter climate, but the Siberian can tolerate the cold and is similar to other large domestic felines, such as the Maine Coon. They are muscular animals with almost dog-like personalities.
Height:
17–25 inches
Weight:
8–17 pounds
Lifespan:
11–18 years
Colors:
Accepted in all colors and patterns
Suitable for:
Active families looking for an affectionate and playful cat
Temperament:
Affectionate, intelligent, tough
The Siberian cat has other characteristics we’d expect from an animal living in a harsh climate. It is a feline version of biology’s Bergmann’s rule, which states that species get larger as the ambient temperatures get cooler. The size of the Siberian is the perfect example. Below, we’ll discuss some interesting details about this remarkable cat.

Siberian cats are an excellent choice for someone who wants an interactive relationship with their pet. They are playful and intelligent, and as kittens, they’re relatively larger than those of other breeds because of their big-boned frame. While most felines reach sexual maturity around 6–8 months, the Siberian cat is a late bloomer, reaching full size at 5 years old.
The Siberian has a decent following, and you shouldn’t have a difficult time finding one. We recommend only buying from reputable sellers who conduct pre-breeding health screening for congenital and hereditary conditions, such as hip dysplasia.
However, we suggest beginning your search with a rescue organization. These animals truly need forever homes. Understanding the financial commitment having a pet entails is imperative. Food and vet care costs will likely be your biggest expenses. However, they are worthwhile investments to safeguard your cat’s health.

The Siberian cat is brilliant at problem-solving and can figure out where you hide the treats and how to get to them. They are also affectionate pets that will gladly share their love with all household members. They love to play and may even encourage you to start the games. That also means mental stimulation and enrichment are imperative for their well-being.
The Siberian cat’s traits make it an excellent family pet, especially for households with children. They can keep up with the kids and are strong enough to handle it. The Siberian enjoys the company of their human companions, yet they aren’t needy. They aren’t as vocal as some breeds, such as the Siamese, and prefer to make their presence known by playing or following you from room to room.
Research has shown that the Siberian cat is one of the most sociable toward humans and least likely to show fearfulness.1 Of course, the cat’s upbringing also plays a role, but the animal’s genetics provide a solid foundation for a good pet/owner relationship.
Early socialization is the best way to ensure harmonious pet relationships. However, the Siberian cat’s calm disposition and gentle nature make them a suitable choice for households with other pets. They are dog-friendly, especially if introduced as kittens. They also have the size and strength on their side. However, cats will be cats if you have small animals, so it’s best not to house them with small pets like hamsters.

Essential characteristics to know about the Siberian include their large size and thick coat. While relatively healthy and long-lived, grooming is more involved with the Siberian than other felines. Providing mental stimulation and devoting time to play are other significant considerations.
Feline dietary needs vary with their age and life stage. You should feed kittens a commercial diet formulated for their health requirements. The food should contain at least 30% protein and 9% fat. Remember that cats are carnivores that need animal-based proteins for optimal health. You can feed the kittens three to four meals daily, cutting back to two when they reach adulthood.
You should also provide fresh, clean water daily. Cats need about 4 ounces of water per 5 pounds of body weight. A 10-pound cat will need at least a cup of water daily, depending on the type of food you give them. Canned food has significantly more moisture than kibble and can cover some of their needs.
A playful Siberian cat will see to some of their exercise needs. However, the onus is still on you for daily interaction. While this feline is tough enough to handle the outdoors, we strongly urge you to keep your pet inside and provide the necessary enrichment indoors.
The Siberian enjoys interactive toys and games that challenge them mentally. It’ll also improve their quality of life. They’re surprisingly athletic for an animal of their size. They have no problems jumping to high places and racing around the house to burn off all their energy.
The Siberian cat is intelligent enough to train, especially if a treat is involved. They are quick to make associations between actions and rewards. Research has shown that felines are on a par with monkeys regarding their recognition memory ability.
We suggest you start training early in your pet’s life to nurture their developing intelligence and problem-solving skills. You can use treats as training rewards, but they should make up no more than 10% of your pet’s daily caloric intake.
The Siberian has a dense double coat that they shed seasonally. You can cut down on the hair around your home by brushing your pet a few times weekly. It’ll prevent mats and keep your kitty looking their best. You should also check their nails and ears. Their thick coat makes them prone to ear infections. Regular grooming will get your cat used to being handled, and your vet will appreciate your efforts.
The Siberian cat is a relatively healthy breed, but maintaining yearly veterinary appointments is vital, regardless of their health. Prevention and early detection are the best ways to keep your kitty healthy. Your Siberian cat will make it easy since they’re open to meeting new friends.

The main differences between male and female Siberian cats are the size and age of sexual maturity. The male is visibly larger than the female and weighs at the high end of the spectrum. They also take a bit longer to mature than the females. Otherwise, their temperament is pleasing, no matter what the sex of the animal. Either one will make a delightful pet.
It’s worth noting that the environment and rearing are potent influences on a cat’s behavior and temperament. A Siberian cat raised by a loving family will happily return the affection and attention.

Early records aren’t always trustworthy, but they suggest that Siberian cats have interacted with humans for over 1,000 years. Their relationship with humans probably began similar to that of dogs, with some brave animals coexisting with people.
While the animal has a long history with humans, the formal development of the breed occurred around 1868. The Siberian has high levels of genetic variation, which helps to explain their good health.
The Siberian is remarkable enough to become the National Cat of Russia, and you must also give props to how tough the cat is for their survival skills.

The Siberian cat is a beautiful animal with a face that will melt your heart. They are affectionate pets that truly love their family. They aren’t aloof or skittish but want to be a part of the household’s activity. They’re happy to play or snuggle on the couch, and their large size also makes them an excellent choice for families with small children. There’s a good reason they’ve been companions for so long.
Featured Image Credit: Massimo Cattaneo, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Chris has been a science-focused pet writer since 2009, specializing in health and the environment. She lives with her husband Norm and three amazing cats in the land of 10,000 lakes. When she's not writing about cats, Chris also enjoys boating and sampling wine. She has her WSET 1 and 2 certifications and is currently pursuing her Certified Wine Specialist Award (CSW).
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Siberians have a long history with the earliest known reference dating to 1000 AD. A slow-maturing breed, the average Siberian reaches its full grandeur around five years of age. These intelligent cats are natural problem solvers. Their semi-longhair coat varies with the season. In winter, they have a thick, full, triple coat that would have protected them from the elements in native Russia. In summer, they shed their winter coat for a shorter, less dense variant. The Siberian is well suited to any home with people who will love them and comb their coat weekly. Find out more about this breed and if the Siberian is right for you and your family.
Playful
Medium-to-Large-sized cat
------
------
11-18+ years
They appear in a wide variety of colors and patterns, including pointed, with deep intense colors and rich patterns
They appear in a wide variety of colors and patterns, including pointed, with deep intense colors and rich patterns


Siberians are a lively, yet highly affectionate breed. Playful in nature, they are happy chasing a feather toy but love just as much to follow family members wherever they go. Siberians make wonderful companions and love to snuggle on cold winter nights. Although they love attention, they are not considered needy and will wait patiently to spend time with their family. Their calm nature makes them a good candidate for serving as a therapy cat.
The Siberian is a medium-large cat with the overall appearance of excellent physical condition, strength and power, modified by a sweet facial expression. The general impression of the body is one of circles and roundness. Siberians are slow to mature, taking as long as 5 years to reach full maturity. Females are considerably smaller than males, and allowances should be made when comparing females and young cats to the standard. Size is secondary to type.
Want to connect with fellow cat lovers and those who love the same breed as you?TICA is a large resource made up of smaller regions and clubs around the world.Click here to find a club near you and contact information for your regional director and website.
Wherever you are, you’re in TICA’s world!®
The TICA website is the only place where you can find TICA member breeders who have signed the TICA Code of Ethics.
A native from the forested, subarctic area of Siberia.
Siberian cats have long hair and a thick coat that is resistant to most extreme weather. They are considered a hypo-allergenic cat breed due to far less reduced levels of Fel d 1 protein sequence in their genes compared to other breeds.
The majestic Siberian is a strong, powerfully built cat with strong hindquarters helping them jump exceptionally high. They are a slow-maturing breeding reaching full magnificence at about 5 years of age. Siberians are large cats with a substantial rounded body reminiscent of a barrel and heavily boned legs to support the substantial body structure. Their paws would do a heavyweight boxer proud! But for all their powerful strength, these are gentle cats that enjoy playing and clowning around with their families.
Siberian cats have existed for a long time. The earliest know reference is from 1000AD. In the 1870s they appeared in the first cat show and we also find a reference to Siberian cats at the 1884 show in Madison Square Gardens. Noted cat fanciers mention them in their books in 1889 (Harrison Weir: Our Cats) and 1898 (John Jennings: Domestic & Fancy Cats) along with the first photo of one in 1900 (Helen Winslow: Concerning Cats). But while we find early references to the early Siberians, there is little documented information about them. The 1980s saw the rise of the cat fancy in Russia and records began to be kept. Kotofei Cat Club in Moscow created the first standard and used 2 cats as the model for it: Mars-a blue lynx point and white–and Roman–a brown tabby and white. At the 1989 All Union Cat Show there were 12 Siberians entered. In 1990 Elizabeth Terrll (Starpoint) imported three cats to the USA: Ofelia, Naina and Kaliostro. In 1997 Dana Osborn (Willowbrook) imported the first colorpoints Ustin El Magrib of Willowbrook (seal lynx point male) and Roksana Babyan of Willowbrook (seal tortie point female) and in 1998 the first color point litter was born. TICA accepted them into the New Breed program in 1992 and in 1996 granted them championship status.
Siberians use their incredible intelligence to solve all kinds of problems-like determining to how to open a door to be with the owners they adore, how to get to the cat food for an extra meal, or how to recover the favorite toy their owner thinks they have so cleverly hidden out of reach! They are powerful agile cats that can leap great distances and heights, sometimes appearing to fly through the air, but despite their size, they are adept at negotiating obstacles in their path without knocking them over. At the same time, they love to play and will entertain you with their clown-like antics. They adore their human families and their visitors-with children holding a warm spot in their hearts. They have a wonderful depth to their purr and talk to you with a chirping sound, particularly when they are coming to greet you when you have been out.
While considered a semi-longhair, the Siberian’s coat varies with the season. In the winter, it will have a thick, rich, full, triple coat that would have protected it from the elements in its native Russia. In the summer, they shed the heavy winter coat for a shorter, less dense coat. They come in a wide variety of colors and patterns, including pointed, with deep intense colors and rich patterns that make them a dramatic stand out from the everyday cat.
The Siberian is a medium, strong cat with heavy boning and a powerful musculature that takes up to 5 years to reach full maturity. They have rounded contours to the body resembling a barrel and rounded, gentle contours to the modified wedge head. Their large eyes are almost, but not quite, round and will appear rounder when the cat is alert or startled. Their hind legs are slightly longer than their front legs giving them the powerful lift they need to get to those high places they just have to reach! The overall impression of the mature Siberian is one of the balance, circles and roundness.
Siberians are generally a healthy breed, however they should be checked for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. It is recommended that their vaccinations and parasite treatments are kept to date and that regular veterinary appointments are scheduled.
The Siberian’s thick triple coat should be combed or brushed a couple of times a week to prevent tangles or mats. The coat will shed seasonally in the spring and fall, and you may need to groom more frequently during that time. A bath is rarely necessary, which is a good thing because their coat is highly water-resistant.
As with all cats, keep their nails trimmed, ears cleaned and teeth brushed regularly with a vet-approved pet toothpaste and provide a nice tall scratching pole to help their natural scratching instinct.
Join the Cat Care Community!
Sign up now for exclusive monthly cat care tips delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your name and email below to stay updated with the best advice for your kitty companions!
"*" indicates required fields
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your cat's connection to this breed and 20 others
Siberian catss are affectionate, highly intelligent, playful, and sociable. These kitties have beautiful semi-longhair coats that change with the seasons. The long locks of the Siberian look their best with weekly care and brushing. Also known as the Siberian Forest Cat or Moscow Semi-Longhair, this cat is Russia’s national animal.
For centuries, the Siberian was a landrace variety of a domestic cat in Russia. Also known as the Siberian Forest Cat or Moscow Semi-Longhair, this cat is Russia’s national animal. It is considered an ancient cat and the ancestor of all longhaired modern-day cats. The Siberian has a dense coat that is long and luxurious. It expresses all three natural types of fur: guard hairs, awn hairs, and down hairs. Coat patterns can vary from tabby, solid, tortoiseshell, and colorpoint. With a strong but agile build, Siberians have large, rounded paws and powerful hindquarters that contribute to their exceptional jumping ability.
The ﬁrst mention of the breed appeared in Harrison Wier’s book entitled, Our Cats and All About Them. Weir was the organizer of the ﬁrst modern cat show at London’s Crystal Palace in 1871. The Siberian has become a highly popular breed, yet kittens are very expensive to obtain and are relatively rare outside of Europe. It wasn't until the 1990s that the breed was introduced to the United States. It was accepted for registration by the Cat Fanciers' Association in 2000 and received championship status in 2006.
Siberians are easygoing and aﬀectionate, getting along well with other animals and with children. The Siberian is both brave and independent, yet regularly seeks companionship. It is said that they are empathetic cats with a keen sense of the emotions of others, eagerly oﬀering their company and support to humans in need. They are also known as playful cats who keep their adventurous spirit well into adulthood.
Though no health conditions are proven to be tightly associated with Siberian cats, there are some claims about diseases for which they may be at a higher risk. These include hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), polycystic kidney disease (PKD), hereditary cancer, feline lower urinary tract disease (FLUTD), and periodontal disease. Siberian cats are considered a somewhat hypoallergenic breed because they produce smaller amounts of FelD1, a primary allergen present on cats and kittens.
Siberian cats may be less likely to cause allergic reactions. They are often considered a hypoallergenic breed because they produce less FelD1 in their saliva. FelD1 is the primary cat allergen (out of 5) thought to cause allergic reactions in people.
They love water. The Siberian has majestic fur that not only offers great insulation, but is also waterproof. This may be the reason why these cats love water! You will often catch them playing with faucets, water fountains or water bowls. Don't be surprised if they hop into your shower too!
They are known to be great parents. Females typically prefer mating with only one partner, and males play an unusually big role in parenting.
Siberians are sensational stars and muses. They are commonly portrayed in Russian paintings and writings from hundreds of years ago. A Siberian starred as a cat named Kotofej Ivanovich in the popular Russian folktale, "The Cat Who Became Head Forester" by Alexander Afanasyev. They have been featured in "Enterprise the First Adventure" (Pocket Books, 1986) by Vonda N. McIntyre, the 2016 film "Nine Lives", and the webcomic "Heatlia: Axis Powers".

Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
