Cat Breeds
Adorable white feet give the Snowshoe cat its name, and distinctive white markings in the shape of an upside down “V” adorn its muzzle. Cuteness isn't the only thing that makes the Snowshoe such a wonderful cat: This breed absolutely loves people. In fact, Snowshoes are among the friendliest cats! While they do have a tendency to choose one person as their absolute favorite, they like everyone and readily make friends with new people shortly after being introduced.
Expect lots of fun and games if you bring a Snowshoe cat into your family. These kitties are curious and playful, and they like nothing quite so much as spending plenty of quality time with their favorite people. They'll help you with all sorts of tasks from typing to cleaning and when it's time to cook dinner or wash dishes, they happily provide advice from a nearby vantage point - perhaps a high place like the top of the refrigerator.
Snowshoe cats are expert cuddlers, too. If you have room on your lap, they'll take advantage of the opportunity to curl up for a movie or a bit of reading. At bedtime, they're likely to stretch out beside you, perhaps sliding under the covers or sharing your pillow.
Just like other breeds with lots of Siamese in their background, the Snowshoe cat requires lots of attention and becomes terribly unhappy if left alone for long periods of time. If boredom sets in, these kitties may develop unwanted behaviors and vocalize loudly. Fortunately, Snowshoe cats get along very well with other felines. If your family can't always be around, a second cat can help prevent loneliness and the destructive habits that can come with it.
Thanks to their outgoing, agreeable personalities, Snowshoe cats can be a great fit for any family with lots of love and attention to give.
Snowshoe cats don't have any special nutritional needs, however they are known for exceptional longevity when their families prioritize good health and proper nutrition. We recommend offering your Snowshoe cat a high-quality, age-appropriate diet with plenty of protein and low levels of carbohydrates. This can help prevent obesity, which is a common health issue in older Snowshoe cats.
Snowshoe cats doing excellent job of looking after their own coats, which are typically very short and low-shedding. Occasional brushing can help remove any loose hair that might otherwise end up on furniture and clothing.
Because Snowshoes are prone to dental issues, it's a very good idea to teach your cat how to have their teeth brushed from a young age. Routine at-home dental care is a great habit that can help your cat enjoy better health overall.
Last but not least, consider keeping your Snowshoe cat's claws clipped. Toenail trimming is the easiest way to preserve your furniture, which these active cats are likely to jump on.
Snowshoe cats are highly active, with lots of energy to burn, particularly in their younger years. They love interactive play, either with their human family members or with other pets, and they appreciate toys of all kinds. These cats are perfectly capable of making their own fun when given a crinkly paper bag or a big empty box, and they love climbing cat towers, perching on window seats, and stretching out with the help of tall scratching posts.
Just like other highly sociable cat breeds, Snowshoes often enjoy leashed walks through the neighborhood. It takes some time and effort to teach a cat how to walk on a leash, but this is fantastic exercise that your Snowshoe will benefit from for life.
Snowshoe cats are generally healthy, however they can suffer from some of the same problems that plague Siamese cats including hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, and periodontal disease. These issues aren't common, however they are worth watching for.
Like Siamese, some Snowshoe cats have crossed eyes and kinks in their tails. Crossed eyes can have a negative effect on peripheral vision, however neither of these issues is painful or shortens the cat's lifespan.
Even though the Snowshoe cat breed wasn't officially developed until the middle of the 20th century, Siamese kittens with white feet and white markings on their muzzles have occurred naturally for as long as the breed has been part of human history.
In the 1960s, Dorothy Hinds-Daugherty, a Siamese breeder in Philadelphia noticed that three kittens – all from the same litter – developed Snowshoe markings instead of solid color points. Since white feet are not acceptable according to the Siamese breed standard, she decided to begin a brand-new line. Thus, the Snowshoe cat breed began.
When the white-footed kittens reached maturity, they were crossed with American Shorthair cats with tuxedo markings. At first, the resulting kittens were called Silver Lace cats. Others, including cat breeder Vikki Olander took notice, and the white markings which were originally viewed as Siamese faults became the hallmarks of a wonderful new breed that combines all the best traits of its founding members.
The American Cat Fanciers Association (ACFA) accepted the Snowshoe in 1982 and granted championship status in 1990. The International Cat Association (TICA) granted Snowshoe cats official recognition in 1993. In the UK, Snowshoe cats attained full breed status with The Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF) in 2013.
Today, the Snowshoe cat breed enjoys recognition worldwide. Show quality examples of the Snowshoe cat breed are relatively rare since it can be difficult to produce kittens that carry the recessive genes for both colorpoint and the piebald pattern that gives Snowshoes their distinctive appearance. It's easier to find pet quality Snowshoe cats with either too much or too little light to qualify for showing.
Snowshoe cats are born all white and begin developing their color points at a few weeks of age.
The recessive gene that causes snowshoe markings doesn't occur often, making Snowshoe cats relatively rare.
Snowshoe cats are one of the few breeds with a fondness for water. These kitties typically jump at the opportunity to get their paws wet and will often join their people in the shower.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Snowshoe, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Snowshoe or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Snowshoe, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Snowshoe cats cost between $600 - $1200.
Snowshoe cats tend to be medium in size. A fully grown Snowshoe cat might weigh between 6-12 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 9"- 11" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Snowshoe is 14-19 years.
Snowshoe are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
Aww, I’m so glad you’re working hard to win her over! I think she sounds quite normal and loving. I think you’re well on the right track to making her feel as comfortable as possible.
My Snowshoe came around the corner of my home, meowing plaintively. I torn a piece of sliced, sandwich chicken and feed him, piece by piece. He then walked away, but came back 5 days later. This time I fed him the same and attempted to pet him, which he permitted. He came back 5 days later; I gave him 3 pieces of chicken from a dish, which he ate and walked away. I decided to get a 13oz can of cat food for his next visit. Well, 5 days came and went, as did 6, 7, 8… After 10 days, I went out of town for a week. When I came home, he was lying on the railing of the front porch, looking like a gargoyle! I could look out most anytime day or night, and that’s where he would be, except when I fed him. I always sat (and still do) with him while he ate, twice a day. I decided he needed to live indoors. That was 8 years ago. The vet said she thought he was 2, so of course he is 10 now. He follows me around the yard like a dog would. I believe a man had abused him because if I have to call a repairman, he will not stay inside and has to be coaxed, sometimes carried, to come back in after the repairman leaves. He will stay indoors when a woman visits. He wasn’t keen on cuddling for the first couple of years, but he is getting used to it. He is very smart has learned a few tricks for bits of chicken. I am so glad he adopted me. I hope you don’t mind the abridged biography.
I got my Lola almost 4 months ago and she is the light of my life! The sweetest friendliest most loving cat I have ever had! She never has a bad day and is a big cuddler. She loves to sleep with me or on me and comes to me when she’s called just like a dog. No matter where she’s at she races to me. She gets along well with another cat and other people but she knows I’m her main person. I feel so lucky to have been picked to be her mommy cuz she is definitely my big baby,! Couldn’t have asked for a better cat than Lola!
Congrats on bringing Lola into your life.
We have a snowshoe and we love her to death.  Our girl loves to hunt for birds,  We live in the State oi Washington and she handles the winter very well
Sounds like she has a wonderful life with you.
My snowshoe was a feral cat and was beat up by all the other ferals. After 5 years of her hanging around by herself, I brought her in the house. We always just called her “white kitty” because she was 90% white with only a touch of sable on her face. After 2 months in the house she shed her white hair and turned sable! I’ve never known a cat to change color after 5 years. 3 years later she is still sable and the best indoor cat ever.
Very interesting! Thanks for sharing, Angie!
I am getting my first two snowshoe kittens in the next few weeks (they will be 11 weeks). I went for one but came away having paid for two, a brother and sister, I work 4 full days a week and worried about loneliness. After reading this I am so pleased I am getting two so they can keep each other company during my working day!
Wishing you and your new kittens-to-be all the best.
Charlotte
I would love to see pics of your babies
And perhaps the info of where they were offered!
I too, have a beautiful snowshoe and am looking for companionship for her
I am not a cat person at all. Our snowshoe came to us by accident and she has completely won me over. We all adore her. She converses with us constantly with the sweetest and sometimes silliest sounds. She follows us everywhere and greets us when we come home. I have never met such an affectionate cat.
Awww, it’s always nice to hear about someone being won over by a certain special feline.
Same with me! <3
This is my first snowshoe and she is a rescue that was used to have kittens and than given to our humane society… I had lost my 17 yo Siamese who I dearly loved but on occasion bit some people ……. I found Cleo in Petsmart and how lucky for me. She was very small and mostly white.   I adopted her and took her to my vet who said she looked like she just had kittens.  She almost looked like a kitten herself.    He thought she was 4 yo but I think she was younger.  This was 6 years ago. She is our 6 th cat after many years and by far the most sweet  and most loving cat we have had. She loves people and sleeps with me or on me.  I don’t think she was abused because she is not afraid of anything.   She looks like a Siamese with white feet and beautiful blue eyes….   I feel lucky that I found her.
Hi Sandra, thanks for sharing your and Cleo’s story.
My Lily is so beautiful. She fits every Snowshoe description.
She’s very independent and very smart. She knows when it’s bedtime. When she wants to cuddle she will plop over on my side and stretch out. She loves to have her belly rubbed.
And yes, she loves water. She sits and waits for me to open the shower door so she can come in. Talking is her thing, she doesn’t meow. And she has such a little voice. She will be 11 yrs. in June. She’s definitely her mom’s baby!
My Francie is a delightful companion, and a beautiful Snowshoe.  I wasn’t familiar with the designation when I adopted her, and I thought her short legs were another marker of a Snowshoe Siamese. These may not be part of the standard body conformation, but in my eyes, those strong, well muscled, but short legs are adorable.
She tolerates my other two cats, a female calico and a male Bombay, but she would be perfectly happy being the only cat in the house.
Incredibly loving and sweet cats. It’s like having a dog in a cat. My snowshoe Dolly follows me from room to room. She likes to be with you. When they say snowshoes are sociable. Very true. Not a good breed to leave alone for long periods of time. Likes to vocalize but has a soft voice. Very obedient cat you can do things to her she won’t bite. Even the vet she’s so sweet she doesn’t bite when they clean ears stick instruments in her ear. She trusts me completely. They do like to eat slot so portion the food or they can put on weight. Very healthy until a year or two when she got skin allergies. Lovely lovely breed. Highly recommend. Not very playful but I font mind that. Very loving and caring cat with super sweet personality. So beautiful color and markings. Regal cat.
My Snowshoe has a deformed left paw and a cute birthmark (a dark brown spot on her left nose). Some one abandoned her in a heavy equipment parking lot. Guess she wasn’t perfect, but she’s perfect for me. She is the joy of my life. I’m so lucky.
She sounds wonderful! Thanks for sharing, Marilyn.
I just found out that my kitties, Zack and Cody, are snowshoe mixes. Now some of their characteristics make a lot more sense. Cody has always loved to play in water. I often wake up to find him flicking the water out of his bowl with his front paws. So cute, until I have to clean up the puddle of water. They are both wonderful cats. Very playful and vocal. Great with other people and animals.
The same story here. I have an adorable snowshoe cat and wonder if your male is altered? Or able to breed.
I agree!  They are so amazing and smart!
I hadnt heard of Snowshoes until I adopted Zoey. I found her in a shelter and thought she was a Siamese. She has beautiful blue eyes and four white paws! She’s the love of my life. Her first owner had passed away. It took her awhile to adapt. A year later she wants me, me, me. And her blanket on my lap, her pillow on my bed plus her favorite treats. She loves watching TV in the evening. She’s the best cat I’ve ever met.
My cat is extremely loving and playfully! Best breed I have ever owned!
Where can I purchase a snowshoe?
--------------------------------------------------
The snowshoe's eyes are another striking feature, ranging from deep to pale blue. No matter the shade of blue, they're always bright and shining.
The snowshoe cat is a very kind and intelligent creature with a playful personality. She'll do what she can to get your attention, including jumping on your lap when you're trying to work or observing your every move from a high perch. If you have a snowshoe, you should consider purchasing a cat condo for your furry friend because she loves to be up high.
Her personality definitely is not that of the loner cat, as she requires companionship and isn't happy when left alone for long periods of time. Cats of this breed will attach themselves to one pet parent, and if you're the lucky chosen one, you'll soon discover that you have a constant companion — much like a dog. "They like to be near you, but unlike a dog, they prefer to lead you than to follow you," explains TICA. "Once 'owned,' you will probably never want to be without one." The snowshoe is most content when everyone is at home, and because she is so good-natured, she's a great choice for families with young children or other cats.
If a snowshoe becomes part of your family, it won't take long before you recognize just how much she loves her people. "Anyone looking for an aloof, standoffish cat need not apply for Snowshoe ownership," says Animal Planet. "Fanciers claim that snowshoes don't realize that they're cats; they consider themselves people." When she does greet you at the door after you've been away, expect her to chatter on about what she's been up to while you were out, a feature inherited from her Siamese genes.
Because she is such an intelligent creature, the snowshoe can cause a bit of mischief, so keep her occupied with a rotating collection of fun cat toys that hold her interest, especially when you are away from home. Athletic and speedy, she'll benefit from cat exercises and will appreciate a fast chase around the house, so go ahead and throw her toy mouse across the room. You'll be amazed at how quickly she runs after it.
Don't be surprised if she decides to jump into the tub with you. Snowshoes love the water. Although many cats like to play around with water and enjoy sticking their paws under a running faucet, the snowshoe likes to swim. Providing her with a shallow container of water in which to splash around will keep her entertained for hours.
A relatively new breed, the snowshoe cat first appeared by accident. "In the late 1960's," shares PetMD, "a Siamese cat breeder in Philadelphia, was startled to find three kittens in a litter with the common Siamese pattern, but with unusual white feet and 'socks.'" The fur babies charmed the socks right off the woman, and after a slow start, she sought and received assistance from another breeder. This led to the "crossing Siamese cats with American shorthairs," says PetMD; however, over the past few decades, the preferred combination for snowshoes is the Oriental shorthair and the stockier, "older Siamese," developing the breed as it is known today.
Another contributing factor in the slow rise and the rarity of the Snowshoe is that it adheres to such a rigid, preferred pattern, the markings of which are described above, which has impeded the breed's ability to achieve recognition from many of the world's leading cat organizations. It's very difficult to reproduce these types of markings because they're the result of recessive genes.
Additionally, the recorded history of the breed is spotty and inconsistent. According to TICA, "Much of the history of the Snowshoe was lost due to poorly kept records over time," thus making it difficult to trace its ancestry. Interest in the Snowshoe fell to a low point in the 1970s but then its popularity was on the upswing, and the breed was accepted as "experimental" in the '80s, reaching full status recognition from TICA and American Cat Fanciers' Association (ACFA) in the '90s.
One of pop culture's most famous cats, Grumpy Cat (whose real name is Tardar Sauce), bears some resemblance to a Snowshoe, but her owners say she's a mixed breed. They say she "looks to have some Persian, Ragdoll, or Snowshoe in her line." Tardar Sauce's parents, though, are not Siamese or direct descendants of an Asian line.
Interestingly, the ACFA notes that, although a new breed, the Snowshoe cat characteristics have popped up before the 1960s: "There is evidence of its existence both in an old Victorian photograph of a purebred litter of Siamese in which the front kitten has four white feet and in an old Japanese silk-screen showing one peering around a corner at a spider." These two examples illustrate that the anomaly of white-footed Siamese has intrigued cat lovers for much longer than a few decades.
The Snowshoe cat characteristics that make her a unique and rare kitty are the very same features that cat lovers find endearing and delightful. She loves nothing more than to snuggle up with her pet parents and share the love.
Are you prepared to adopt a pet?  Use these tools to make sure you are ready for the commitment.


Are you prepared to adopt a pet?  Use these tools to make sure you are ready for the commitment.


Learn all about your cat's sleep schedule, why she seems to be most active during twilight hours and what it means to be a crepuscular kitty.
Learn helpful info about Feline Infectious Peritonitis, or FIP in cats, including risk factors, common symptoms, treatment options & how to prevent it.
Want to learn how to build a catio? Get started with DIY cat enclosure basics, including what to consider and how a catio can benefit your cat.
Worried that your cat may have come in contact with ticks? Learn how to identify a tick bite and steps for safely removing a tick from your cat.
If you're a cat parent, you may find yourself saying, "I wonder why my cat's stomach gurgles after they eat." Read on to learn what this gurgling may mean.
Explore the signs of feline bartonella and learn if it can be transmitted to other pets or humans. If your cat is showing symptoms, learn how you can help.
Cats are naturally very clean and chances are your kitten will already have learned how to use the litter box from her mother before she comes to live with you.
Spend enough time with a cat and you're sure to spot the widely beloved "cat loaf." We'll explain what this quirky position is and why your cat does it.
Learn from a Veterinarian: Discover how your cat's metabolism can affect her health, including weight fluctuations, and how metabolic cat food can help.
Concerned about cat frostbite? Read on to learn more about the clinical signs and what to do if you suspect that your cat might have it.
Discover how your indoor cat can get fleas, how to spot signs that she has them, and tips for getting rid of them & preventing them in the future.
Learn about common causes, signs & symptoms, and treatment of a cat ear infection, as well as tips for how to prevent them from happening.
Use this comprehensive guide to help you find the best cat carrier for your feline friend. Learn what to look for in a quality carrier and what to avoid.
If you have an overweight cat, learn how this condition can affect your cat's health and tips for choosing the best cat food for weight loss.
Learn how to recognize the signs of stress in cats and how to help a stressed cat find relief. Learn the implications of stress on her overall health, and what you can do to help ease her.
Learn the proper way to pick up a cat. Practicing the right technique will make her feel safe & secure, and you'll avoid getting a bunch of scratch marks.
Senior cats certainly have unique needs compared to when they were younger but how do you know when your cat is senior and their needs have changed?
Learn more about cat periods, when you can expect them, and what kind of impact your cat's heat cycle has on her body.
Get help tips for choosing a kitten, such as personality & knowing her health history, and how to prepare for her arrival at home.
Chocolate is known to be poisonous for dogs, but it can also be toxic for cats. Learn why chocolate is bad for cats & what to do if she's eaten it.
The right nutrition is essential to pets living happy, healthy lives. See which foods fit your pet's unique nutrition needs here.
FOR DOGS
FOR CATS
--------------------------------------------------
The Snowshoe cat is a beautiful breed, celebrated for their striking appearance and engaging personality. This breed is a relatively recent addition to the popular cat world, originating in the 1960s when Siamese breeders introduced a new crossbreeding program. Snowshoes showcase short, sleek coats, which come in a variety of colors, but the classic pattern includes a mostly white body with color points on the ears, face, paws, and tail.
One of the most notable features of the Snowshoe cat is the distinctive “snowshoe” pattern on their paws, which resembles the markings left by a snowshoe in the snow. This breed is also known for their affectionate and social nature. They often form strong bonds with their human companions. Snowshoes are typically vocal and enjoy interactive play, making them well-suited for families and individuals seeking an engaging and loving feline companion.
When considering a Snowshoe, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Snowshoe breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats. They also conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Like his ancestor the Siamese, the Snowshoe is a pointed cat, meaning she has a light-colored body with dark areas in seal or blue: the tail, legs, and ears, plus a mask around the eyes, broken up by an inverted V-shaped marking in white between blue eyes and over the muzzle. Four white paws punctuate the dark legs, with the front paws termed “mittens” and the rear paws “boots.” The body is more rounded than that of the Siamese, with short hair.
The appearance of the Snowshoe harks back to the late Victorian era, with photographic and silk-screen evidence of Siamese kittens with four white feet, but the breed we know today was not developed until the mid-20th century. White-pawed Siamese known as Silver Laces made a brief appearance in the 1950s, but it wasn’t until the 1960s that Philadelphia Siamese breeder Dorothy Hinds-Daugherty decided to create a Siamese-type cat with white paws and a moderate body. She called them Snowshoes.
Daugherty began with three white-pawed Siamese kittens and bred them to a domestic shorthaired cat with tuxedo markings (black coat and white belly, chest, throat, and paws — often with a black mask around the eyes). With intelligence from both sides of the family tree and the moderating influence of the domestic shorthair on the Siamese body type and personality, it’s no wonder the new cats were seen to have potential both as companions and show animals.
Daugherty eventually gave up breeding cats, but other breeders who saw merit in continuing to develop the interesting and beautiful cats carried on her work. The Cat Fanciers Federation recognized the Snowshoe in 1982, followed by American Cat Fanciers Association in 1990 and The International Cat Association in 1994. The Cat Fanciers Association does not yet recognize the breed. While the Snowshoe is a distinct breed, the cats are still sometimes bred back to Siamese or Oriental Shorthairs to maintain their traits. It’s not easy to produce kittens with the desired markings, so the breed is uncommon, despite the ubiquity of Grumpy Cat.
This medium-size cat weighs 9 to 12 pounds. Females are smaller, weighing 7 to 10 pounds, although some approach the size if not the heft of males.
The Snowshoe is a unique individual who is always interesting to live with. A Snowshoe may be the bossy master or mistress of the home, the feline “Mom” who’s always checking in on you, the entertaining clown, or the needy best friend. In whatever guise she comes, you can expect her to be smart, active, and affectionate, although she may take her time warming up to visitors.
A Snowshoe usually chooses a favorite person in the family, but she maintains cordial relationships with everyone. She stays close to the favored person and can often be seen leading them to something of the Snowshoe’s interest. Snowshoes are smart and will often learn to open doors or perform tricks, including running feline agility courses. They like to play fetch, may walk on leash, and enjoy dabbling in running water. Some even take to swimming.
This is an active cat who can often be found perching on top of the refrigerator or some other vantage point from where he can survey all that’s going on. Thanks to their Siamese heritage, Snowshoes tend to be “talkers.” Fortunately, they have a soft, melodic voice that’s easy on the ears. Plan to carry on many interesting conversations with your Snowshoe; she’ll want to know all about your day, how you feel about the local school board election, and whether you think dinner will be soon. He won’t hesitate to register any complaints with you about her meals or accommodations, but this sweet-tempered cat knows you catch more flies with honey than vinegar.
Snowshoes are mellow and generally get along with other pets, including dogs. That said, it’s certainly possible to end up with one who prefers to be the center of your world and will do best as an only cat. Choose a Snowshoe if you will enjoy spending time with and interacting with your cat. A Snowshoe likes company and would prefer not to be home alone all day. If you work long hours, she’ll appreciate having a feline or canine friend.
Both pedigreed and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. The Snowshoe is generally healthy, however. Occasionally, a Snowshoe may have a kink in her tail or crossed eyes — vestiges of her Siamese ancestry — but those cosmetic flaws don’t affect her health or ability to be a great companion. These are common cat issues that may arise, but not specific to the Snowshoe:
Brush a Snowshoe’s short coat once or twice a week to remove dead hair and distribute skin oils. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing.
It’s a good idea to keep a Snowshoe as an indoor-only cat to protect her from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Snowshoes who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have a unique and beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Snowshoe has a short, smooth coat that’s easy to care for. Snowshoe kittens are born white. Their points (dark or patterned areas of fur on the tail, legs, head, and ears) begin to develop when they are a few weeks old and darken as the kitten matures. The body is usually a light cream color ranging to beige or tan with seal or blue points.
Because the Snowshoe’s pattern is recessive and involves several gene factors, it’s difficult to consistently achieve the desired look. No cat has perfect markings. Those who come closest to the ideal — the ones you’ll see in the show ring — have an inverted white “V” between the eyes and over the muzzle, two white mittens in the front and two white boots in the back. The more symmetrical the markings, the better.
Markings that are acceptable but not preferred include a blaze on the face or white markings on the chin, throat, and stomach. It’s best if all four feet are solid white with dark points separating the white foot color from the light body color. White that goes too high or too low on the leg or face is a flaw and may put a kitten into the “pet quality” category depending on her other qualities. In a perfect world, a Snowshoe won’t have spots of the point color in the white areas or white streaks (called runners) going from the white areas into the points.
A Snowshoe glances at you with large, wide eyes of sparkling blue. The eyes are described as walnut-shaped: larger and rounder than the Siamese eye, but not as round as the eye of a Persian. The rectangular body is firm and muscular, but never bulky. The Snowshoe resembles a runner, not a wrestler, but is more powerful than she looks. When you pick her up, you may be surprised at how substantial she feels. Medium-large ears top the slightly rounded head, which should be as wide as it is long. Medium-size paws are oval and taper to the toes.
The active and social Snowshoe is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. She will play fetch as well as any Retriever, learns tricks easily, and appreciates the attention she receives from children who treat her politely and with respect.
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
The personality of the Showshoe is as unique as their appearance. Like snowflakes, no two have the same personality. Some are shy, some bossy and others caregivers. All, however, are uncannily intelligent, amusing and loyal. As they mature, the contrast of the white against the point colors darkens. They are a great choice for families with young children or other cats and are easy to maintain by brushing weekly. Find out more about this breed and if a Snowshoe is right for you and your family.
Playful
small-sized, weighing approximately 7 to 10 pounds
medium-sized, weighing approximately 9 to 12 pounds
15 – 20+ years depending on many factors including environment and nutrition.
Snowshoe kittens are born totally white. The point coloring begins to develop in a few weeks. The tail, legs, head and ears darken as the kitten ages. The body is a lighter color ranging from a light cream color with the shading darkening with age. The most common colors are seal point and blue point. The lighter colors of chocolate and lilac are less common because of the specialized breeding required to produce the lighter colors and because the lighter colors do not produce as good a contrast between the point color and the white feet.
Snowshoe kittens are born totally white. The point coloring begins to develop in a few weeks. The tail, legs, head and ears darken as the kitten ages. The body is a lighter color ranging from a light cream color with the shading darkening with age. The most common colors are seal point and blue point. The lighter colors of chocolate and lilac are less common because of the specialized breeding required to produce the lighter colors and because the lighter colors do not produce as good a contrast between the point color and the white feet.


The Snowshoe personality is a unique combination, sometimes considered shy while other times regarded as bossy due to their desire to lead their humans. However, all are considered a mellow breed that thrives on interaction, companionship, and affection. They are known to express themselves vocally and love to talk with their humans, but do so in a soft, melodic voice. While demure around strangers, they show great devotion and love toward their family, often attaching themselves and serving as a constant companion to one family member.
They love being around people, making them ideal for families and will get along well with children and other pets. The Snowshoe is very social and should not be left alone for long periods.
The Snowshoe breeding program produces a cat that is unique because of the combination of short hair, modified wedge, semi-foreign build and particolor points that sets the Snowshoe apart from other breeds. The Snowshoe is a strikingly marked cat in a variety of unique patterns. May be vocal or non-vocal; when vocal, the voice is generally soft and melodic. The Snowshoe has an outgoing personality, although some cats may be somewhat shy with strangers. Most Snowshoe are outgoing, loyal and ideal companions and generally get along well with other cats. Full colors, points, and white area development may take up to 2 years, especially in dilute colors.
Aside from being extremely active, the Snowshoe is very smart and easy to train. They enjoy learning new tricks such as walking on a leash, playing fetch and opening doors. Their speed and intelligence is also a good match for the feline agility courses.
Though very energetic, they are not restless or easily agitated, however they have been known to cause a bit of mischief if left unoccupied. Athletic and speedy, they love to chase toys around the house, especially when they are home alone.
Snowshoes love water, so don’t be surprised if one jumps in the tub with you. While many cats like to play with water by sticking their paws under a running faucet, the Snowshoe likes to swim. A shallow container of water to splash around will keep them entertained for hours.
Want to connect with fellow cat lovers and those who love the same breed as you?TICA is a large resource made up of smaller regions and clubs around the world.Click here to find a club near you and contact information for your regional director and website.
Wherever you are, you’re in TICA’s world!®
The TICA website is the only place where you can find TICA member breeders who have signed the TICA Code of Ethics.
For the perfect recipe to make a Snowshoe cat, take the splash of pointed colors with the lighter colored body coat from the Siamese, a white tuxedo look with white feet from the American Shorthair side of their ancestors and the resulting in white feet (with or without a white face), blue eyes, medium body with long legs and shorthair will produce the unique Snowshoe look. But the Snowshoe is not ‘just another pretty face’. Packed into that unique look is also a unique personality. Now add the Siamese intelligence along with many of the other Siamese traits that make the Snowshoe what it is today and the reason why it is still bred back to the Siamese to maintain that inheritance. Then add a dash of the American Shorthair to round off the edges of the body and contribute a bit of a less exotic build and personality and you are getting close to the final product. When selecting the ingredients, take care not to overwhelm the blue eyes or the pointed colors by carefully selecting a color and build that does not eliminate the look or distort the personality and you have a Snowshoe cat.
The origin of the Snowshoe can be traced back to the early 1960’s when Dorothy Hinds Daugherty, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania found three kittens in a litter of Siamese, each with four white feet. Dorothy liked the unique combination of pointed colors and white feet and began the process to establish a breed. In developing the breed, Dorothy bred the kittens to a domestic (American Shorthair) cat with tuxedo markings and eventually developed the popular white ‘V’ facial markings. The American Shorthair was still pending recognition as a breed at that time. The result of the breeding to a domestic cat produced a cat that is unlike either of the two ancestors with a combination of the personality of both ancestors.Much of the history of the Snowshoe was lost due to poorly kept records over time and the original pattern restrictions which discouraged both new and old breeders because of the inconsistencies of the white patterning. Between 1960 and 1977, interest in the breed had declined until there was only one breeder in 1977, but by 1989, there were close to thirty documented breeders. The International Cat Association (TICA) accepted the Snowshoe as a championship breed in 1994.
The Snowshoe personality is as unique as their appearance and is never boring. The personality is a complicated mix of mystical aloofness along with a slight dash of ‘normal’ cat. Like snowflakes and coloring, no two cats have the same personality. Some are shy, some are bossy (but nice), and some are caregivers, taking the role of worrying about their adopted person as though it were their lifelong ambition. Generally a ‘talker’, with a soft, melodic voice the Snowshoe normally habitats well in a multiple cat family but some are loners and prefer your total attention. Almost all are inquisitive and active, offering many hours of delightful entertainment and a cat’s lifetime of affectionate companionship.
Most Snowshoes form a primary bond with their chosen person while still maintaining friendship with other people. They know what you are going to do long before you know it. They like to be near you, but unlike a dog, they prefer to lead you than to follow you. The resulting personality is not for every cat owner and being ‘owned’ by a Snowshoe is something you have to experience to appreciate. Once ‘owned’, you will probably never want to be without one.
The Snowshoe is a well balanced cat, neither too small nor too large; it is firm, muscular without being bulky and deceptively powerful and agile. The body has the appearance of a runner and jumper rather than that of a weightlifter being moderately but not extremely long giving the body the appearance of a rectangle. The ears are medium-large and continue the triangular shape of the head. The body is muscular without being bulky. The paws are oval tapering to the toes, and are medium in size.
The Snowshoe male is a medium sized cat weighing approximately 9 to 12 pounds, with a heftiness that makes it seem heavier when lifted. The Snowshoe female is usually much smaller in size, weighing approximately 7 to 10 pounds, but some females match the male in size but not always in heftiness.
The Snowshoe is a shorthair cat, not to be confused with either a Birman or a Ragdoll and is not related to either of these breeds. The coat is a single layer with no evidence of an undercoat and is usually smooth to the touch. The short hair coat provides for an easy to groom coat and most Snowshoes will groom themselves unless they are not feeling well or are stressed.
The Snowshoe is considered an overall healthy breed. However, it is recommended their vaccinations and parasite treatments are kept to date.
The Snowshoe’s shorthair makes them easy to groom. While most will groom themselves, it is a good idea to brush their coat once a week to remove dead hair and distribute skin oils.
As with all cats, regularly trim their nails and brush their teeth with a vet-approved pet toothpaste for good overall health and fresh breath. Schedule regular veterinary check ups and dental cleanings.
Similar to any cat, Snowshoes require proper protein and nutrients. A high-quality diet is recommended.
As with all cats, it is important to give your cat fresh, clean water daily. Fresh, clean water is best, so cats don’t hesitate to drink. If you worry about your cat drinking enough water each day, here’s a tip from some cat behaviorists: place the water bowl at least three feet away from any food. Cats’ noses are sensitive, and an overwhelming smell of food may cause them to drink less. Filtered drinking fountains can also be used in place of a water bowl.
Join the Cat Care Community!
Sign up now for exclusive monthly cat care tips delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your name and email below to stay updated with the best advice for your kitty companions!
"*" indicates required fields
--------------------------------------------------
Learn more about how Purina and Petfinder are making a difference together.
Medium
8 to 13 inches
6.5 to 12 pounds
Pointed coloration with tuxedo markings
Small to medium
14 to 19 years
no
Snowshoe cats have outgoing and friendly personalities. They’re intelligent and curious, often engaging in playful antics and learning new tricks. While they can be affectionate and love bonding with their humans, they also have an independent side. Their love for water and tendency to "borrow" small objects add to their charming and mischievous nature.
The Snowshoe cat is a fairly new cat breed that originated in the 1960s. Discovered by a Siamese Cat breeder in Philadelphia, these cats initially caught attention for their unique, white "snowshoe" markings on their paws. Through careful breeding, the distinctive appearance was refined, combining the Siamese's pointed pattern with the American Shorthair's sturdy build. While the exact genetic origins remain somewhat mysterious, the Snowshoe's charming appearance and playful personality quickly gained popularity, leading to its recognition as a distinct breed.
Snowshoe cats are great for first-time owners, as they merely want a companion who enjoys playing with them and who gives them plenty of attention.
Snowshoe cats are natural-born explorers with boundless energy. To keep these curious kitties entertained and out of trouble, provide ample opportunities to climb, play, and hide. Cat trees, shelves, and other vertical spaces are must-haves. Interactive toys and puzzle feeders will challenge their minds and also prevent boredom.
Snowshoe cats love the outdoors. While they can adapt to indoor life, providing them with a safe outdoor space, like a catio or a fenced-in yard, is ideal. These environments allow them to satisfy their instincts to climb, explore, and enjoy fresh air. However, it's important to supervise the Snowshoe cat breed closely, as their curious nature can lead them into trouble.
Even better for owners, Snowshoe cats are great at grooming themselves. Occasional brushing to bond with your Snowshoe and check for parasites is all you need to keep their coat healthy.
Like the American Shorthairs and Siamese Cats they descend from, the Snowshoe cat is very smart and clever. They enjoy training and learn quickly. Positive reinforcement works best for them to learn commands like “sit” and “come.” They love praise, so heap it on them.
Snowshoe cats thrive in calmer environments. They appreciate a peaceful home where they can relax and bond with their human companions. Older children who can respect a cat's space are a good match, but very young children or chaotic households might overwhelm them.
The cost of a Snowshoe from a breeder is significantly more than the cost of adopting one from a local shelter or rescue. The adoption fee usually covers additional items such as spaying or neutering, vaccines, and microchipping.
Learn more about feeding and caring for your Snowshoe on Purina.
For cats, seeing the cat carrier is often the first sign that something bad is about to happen (i.e. a trip to the vet). So the first step to reducing the stress of vet visits (or travel in general) is to create positive associations for your cat. Here’s how: 

 
	  Start young:  Kittens usually
Don't underestimate the power of play. Cats need play sessions to engage their minds and exercise their bodies. We all know cats enjoy a good catnip-filled mouse now and then, but those stuffed toys can get old fast. If you want to shake things up a bit, here are some fun new ways to play with y
--------------------------------------------------
