A tabby cat, or simply tabby, is any domestic cat (Felis catus) with a distinctive M-shaped marking on its forehead, stripes by its eyes and across its cheeks, along its back, around its legs and tail, and characteristic striped, dotted, lined, flecked, banded, or swirled patterns on the body: neck, shoulders, sides, flanks, chest. The four known distinct patterns, each linked to genetics, are the mackerel, classic or blotched, ticked, and spotted tabby patterns.
"Tabby" is not a breed of cat but a coat pattern. It is very common amongst non-pedigree cats around the world.[1] The tabby pattern occurs naturally and is connected both to the coat of the domestic cat's direct ancestor and to those of its close relatives: the African wildcat (Felis lybica lybica), the European wildcat (Felis silvestris), and the Asiatic wildcat (Felis lybica ornata), all of which have similar coats, both by pattern and coloration. One genetic study of domestic cats found at least five founders.[2][3]
The English term tabby originally referred to "striped silk taffeta", from the French word tabis, meaning "a rich watered silk". This can be further traced to the Middle French atabis (14th century), which stemmed from the Arabic term عتابية / ʿattābiyya.[4] This word is a reference to the Attabiya district of Baghdad, noted for its striped cloth and silk;[5] itself named after the Umayyad governor of Mecca Attab ibn Asid. Such silk cloth became popular in the Muslim world and spread to England, where the word "tabby" became commonly used in the 17th and 18th centuries.[6]
Use of the term tabby cat for a cat with a striped coat began in the 1690s, and was shortened to tabby in 1774. The notion that tabby indicates a female cat may be due to the feminine proper name Tabby as a nickname of "Tabitha".[7]
The four known distinct patterns, each having a sound genetic explanation, are the mackerel, classic, ticked, and spotted tabby patterns.[8][9]
A fifth pattern is formed by any of the four basic patterns being included as part of a patched pattern. A patched tabby is a cat with calico or tortoiseshell markings combined with patches of tabby coat (such cats are called caliby and torbie, respectively, in cat fancy).[1]
All five patterns have been observed in random-bred populations. Several additional patterns are found in specific breeds and so are not as well known. For example, a modified classic tabby is found in the Sokoke breed. Some of these rarer patterns are because of the interaction of wild and domestic genes, as with the rosette and marbled patterns found in the Bengal breed.
The mackerel, or striped, tabby pattern is made up of thin vertical, gently curving stripes on the sides of the body. These stripes can be continuous or broken into bars and short segments/spots, especially on the flanks and stomach. Three or five vertical lines in an "M" shape almost always appear on the forehead, along with dark lines from the corners of the eyes, one or more crossing each cheek, with many stripes and lines at various angles on the neck and shoulder area, on the flanks, and around the legs and tail, marks which are more or less perpendicular to the length of the body part. Mackerel tabbies are also called 'fishbone tabbies,' probably doubly named after the mackerel fish.[10] Mackerels are the most common among tabbies.[1]
The classic tabby, also known as blotched tabby, has the 'M' pattern on the forehead but, rather than primarily thin stripes or spots, the body markings are thick curving bands in whorls or a swirled pattern, with a distinctive mark on each side of the body resembling a bullseye. 80% of modern-day cats have the recessive allele responsible for the classic pattern.[11] Black tabbies generally have dark browns, olives, and ochres that stand out more against their black colors. Classic tabbies each have a light-colored "butterfly" pattern on the shoulders and three thin stripes (the center stripe being the darkest) running along the spine. The legs, tail, and cheeks of a classic tabby have thick stripes, bands, and/or bars. The gene responsible for the coloring of a classic tabby is recessive.[11] Many American shorthair cats demonstrate this pattern.[12]
The ticked tabby pattern is due to even fields of agouti hairs, each with distinct bands of colour, which break up the tabby patterning into a salt-and-pepper appearance that makes them look sand-like—thus there are few to no stripes or bands. Residual ghost striping and/or barring can often be seen on the lower legs, face, and belly and sometimes at the tail tip, as well as the standard 'M' and a long dark line running along the spine, primarily in ticked tabbies that also carry a mackerel or classic tabby allele. These types of cats come in many forms and colours.
It's thought that the spotted tabby results from a modifier gene that breaks up the mackerel tabby pattern and causes the stripes to appear as spots.[citation needed] Similarly, the classic tabby pattern may be broken by the spotted tabby gene into large spots. One can see both large and small spot patterns in the Australian Mist, Bengal, Serengeti, Savannah, Egyptian Mau, Arabian Mau, Maine Coon, and Ocicat breeds, among others, as well as some crosses. Naturally, the most common spotted tabby looks most similar to the mackerel tabby, including the classic marks on the limbs, tail, and head, as well as the 'M' on the forehead.
The orange tabby, also commonly called red or ginger tabby, is a color-variant of the above patterns, having pheomelanin (O allele) instead of eumelanin (o allele). Though generally a mix of orange and white, the ratio between fur color varies, from a few orange spots on the back of a white cat to a completely orange coloring with no white at all. The orange areas can be darker or lighter spots or stripes, but the white is nearly always solid and usually appears on the underbelly, paws, chest, and muzzle.
The face markings are reminiscent of the mackerel or classic tabby and, with orange/white, inclusion of a white spot on the face that covers the mouth, coming to a point around the forehead. Because a masking gene is present on white fur, its inclusion is often asymmetrical, leading to more or less white fur on each paw or side of the face.[13]
Roughly 75% of ginger cats are male.[14] Male cats with the gene for orange can be either X°Y ginger or X-Y black or non-ginger tabby. Females with the gene have three possibilities: X-X- black or non-ginger tabby, X°X° ginger, and X-X° tortoiseshell, thus male cats cannot be tortoiseshell unless they have two X chromosomes.[14]
Since female cats have two X chromosomes, it is possible for them to have the O (orange) allele on one X chromosome and o (black) on the other. This causes both colors to appear in random patches, either with or without the tabby pattern. When paired with the tabby pattern, these cats are known as torbie cats. If there is also white spotting, the cat is known as a caliby (US English).
Two distinct gene loci, the agouti gene locus (two alleles) and the tabby locus (three alleles), and one modifier, spotted (two alleles), cause the four basic tabby patterns. The fifth pattern is emergent, being expressed by female cats with one black and one orange gene on each of their two X chromosomes, and is explained by Barr bodies and the genetics of sex-linked inheritance.[8][9]
The agouti gene, with its two alleles, A and a,[15] controls whether or not the tabby pattern is expressed. The dominant A expresses the underlying tabby pattern, while the recessive non-agouti or "hyper-melanistic" allele, a, does not. Solid-color (black or blue) cats have the aa combination, hiding the tabby pattern, although sometimes a suggestion of the underlying pattern can be seen ("ghost striping"). This underlying pattern, whether classic, mackerel, ticked or spotted, is most easily distinguishable under bright light in the early stages of kittenhood and on the tail in adulthood.
However, the agouti gene primarily controls the production of black pigment, so a cat with an O allele for orange color will still express the tabby pattern. As a result, both red cats and the patches of red on tortoiseshell cats will always show tabby patterning, though sometimes the stripes are muted—especially in cream and blue/cream cats due to the pigment dilution.
The mackerel pattern and its Tm allele at the tabby gene locus is dominant over the classic (or blotched) allele, Tb. So a cat with a TmTm or TmTb genotype sets the basic pattern of thin stripes (mackerel tabby) that underlies the coat, while a TbTb cat will express a classic tabby coat pattern with thick bands and a ring or concentric stripes on its sides.
The ticked tabby pattern is a result of a different allele at the same gene locus as the mackerel and classic tabby patterns and this allele is dominant over the others. So a TaTa genotype as well as TaTm and TaTb genotypes will be ticked tabbies. The ticked tabby coat essentially masks any other tabby pattern, producing a non-patterned, or agouti tabby (much like the wild type agouti coat of many other mammals and the sable coat of dogs), with virtually no stripes or bars. If the ticked allele is present, no other tabby pattern will be expressed. The ticked allele actually shows incomplete dominance: cats homozygous for the ticked allele (TaTa) have less barring than cats heterozygous for the ticked allele (TaTm or TaTb).[8]
The spotted gene is a separate locus theorized to be directly connected to the Tm allele; it 'breaks' the lines and thin stripes of a mackerel tabby, creating spots. The spotted gene has a dominant and a recessive allele as well, which means a spotted cat will have an Sp Sp or Sp sp genotype along with at least one Tm allele and at least one A allele at those alleles’ respective loci.
Personality and aggression vary widely from cat to cat, and is multifactorial.[16] A 2015 study from University of California, Davis sought to examine the relationship between coat color and behavior in cats.[17] Researchers ran statistical analyses from 1,274 online surveys completed by cat owners. The owners were asked to rank the cats' aggressiveness during interactions with human aggression, handling aggression, and veterinary aggression. The study concluded that, though aggressive behaviors did show up in different levels between different coats, these were relatively minor.[17] The larger differences in aggression seemed to researchers to be sex-linked, rather than related to any coat pattern or coloring:[17]
With all coat colors combined, females were identified by their guardians as more aggressive during veterinary visits compared with males (X² = 10.36, p = .001). Analyses showed that gray-and-white and black/brown/gray tabby females were more aggressive than their male counterparts at veterinarians’ offices (X² = 9.28, p = .002, and X² = 5.00, p = .025, respectively).
A similar study also reported no evidence of a link between a cat's behavior and its coat pattern; however, it suggested that any differences were just how they were being perceived, i.e. people perceive orange cats as "friendly" and white cats as "shy", and then look for confirmation of these perceptions.[18]
Since the tabby pattern is a common wild type, it might be assumed that medieval cats were tabbies. However, the natural philosopher John Aubrey believed this to be untrue. Sometime after the mid-17th century, he noted that William Laud, the Archbishop of Canterbury was "a great lover of Cats" and "was presented with some Cyprus-cats, i.e. our Tabby-Cats". He then claimed that "I doe well remember that the common English Catt, was white with some blueish piednesse [i.e. with grey parts]. The race or breed of them is now almost lost."[19] Despite this, most drawings and paintings of cats in medieval manuscripts depict them as tabbies.[20]
Notable examples of tabby cats include:
--------------------------------------------------
Cat Breeds

Many people refer to their cats as tabbies without really knowing what the term means.
Rather than referring to a specific breed, the word “tabby” is a reference to a certain coat pattern commonly seen in both domestic and wild cats. Tabbies often have stripes, swirls, or spots of color on their coats determined by their breed and individual genetics.
Though it’s difficult to make generalizations about tabbies because they come from so many breeds, many tabby cat owners say their cats are friendly, affectionate, and playful.
Also Read: Most Popular Names for Tabby Cats

Every cat is unique but what makes tabby cats special is the beautiful patterns that cover their coats. Tabby cats exhibit a combination of stripes, swirls, and spots which, depending on the breed, may cover the cat’s entire body or be localized to patches.
There are five types of Tabby markings:
Though every tabby cat is different, there are certain types of markings most cats with this coat pattern tend to exhibit. Most tabbies have stripes across their faces, along their backs, and on their legs and tail.
What makes a tabby really stand out, however, is the distinctive M-shaped marking on the forehead.
This recognizable M-shaped marking is also seen on a number of wild cats, particularly jungle cats like cheetahs, ocelots, and tigers. Some say the M stands for the word Mau, the Egyptian word for cat. It’s also common knowledge that tabbies are among the smartest cats in the feline world.

Though tabby cats are not a specific breed, all domestic cats carry the tabby gene because their origins can be traced to wild cats that carry the tabby pattern.
In fact, the tabby pattern is a hallmark of the direct ancestors of the domestic feline, including:
The tabby gene is extremely diverse, involved in a wide variety of coat patterns. Though the striped tabby pattern is the most familiar, there are five recognized types of tabby markings. The tabby gene can also be mixed with other marking genes to create cats with solid coats or a mixture of patterns.
Whether a cat show its tabby pattern or not depends on whether the cat has inherited a dominant agouti gene or a recessive non-agouti gene.
Cats that inherit the dominant agouti gene (A) will express a visible tabby pattern while cats that inherent the recessive non-agouti gene (a) will not. If a solid-colored cat inherits two copies of the recessive non-agouti gene (aa), it may exhibit “ghost striping.” This refers to a subtle suggestion of the underlying tabby pattern which is most visible in strong sunlight.

Though there are several distinct tabby patterns, most tabbies exhibit some degree of striping on their coats. Depending on the cat’s genetics, these stripes may be bold and clearly visible or they might be subtle and faded. Some tabbies only show visible striping on their legs and tail.
Other physical characteristics commonly seen in tabbies include:
While every tabby cat may not exhibit all of these markings, if a cat exhibits several from this list it’s pretty safe to say it’s a tabby. That being said, there are five different types of tabby markings.

The classic tabby pattern consists of bold swirls that create a “target”-like pattern on the side of the cat’s body. Some classic tabbies also have blotches of color, giving these cats a secondary nickname of “blotched tabby.” The American Shorthair breed commonly exhibits the classic tabby pattern.

The most common tabby pattern by far, the mackerel tabby is also called the striped tabby or the tiger cat. These cats have solid or broken stripes that run parallel down the side of the body along with rings around the legs and tail. Many tabbies with this pattern also have dark bands of color running across their bellies which have the nickname “vest buttons.”
The stripes on the cat’s body branch out from one large stripe that runs along the cat’s spine. Because this effect resembles a fish skeleton, this striped pattern was given the nickname “mackerel tabby.”

Rather than exhibiting stripes or swirls, the spotted tabby is covered in spots of various size. Because these spots vary in shape and size, they often resemble broken mackerel tabby stripes. It’s unclear whether the spotted tabby was developed from the broken mackerel tabby or if it has unique genetics.
Two cat breed which commonly exhibit the spotted tabby pattern are the Ocicat and the American Bobtail. Ocicats are a domestic cat breed that resembles a wild cat – they are named for their resemblance to the ocelot. The American Bobtail is known for its stubby “bobbed” tail.

The ticked tabby is one that doesn’t show the typical stripes or spots, except sometimes on the legs and tail. These cats have agouti hairs – hairs that are composed of several bands of pigmentation. Typically, an agouti hair has a dark base color that alternates with lighter tones.
The ticked tabby coloration is created by a blend of agouti hairs that gives the coat a salt-and-pepper appearance instead of clear stripes. Some ticked tabbies do, however, show residual ghost striping or barring on the face, belly, and lower legs. If the cat has an all-ticked pattern, it may give off the appearance of shimmering in the sunlight due to color variations in the hairs.

This fifth tabby pattern doesn’t refer to a specific type of marking but to the combination of tabby markings with other colors or patterns. A patched tabby may be a calico cat or a tortoiseshell that exhibits patches of tabby markings. A tortoiseshell cat with tabby patches is often called a “torbie.”
You may also come across an orange tabby which shows any of the 5 tabby patterns above but has an overall orange and white coloration.

Because a wide variety of breeds exhibit the tabby coat pattern, it’s difficult to make broad statements about tabby cat personality. The best way to predict your tabby’s personality is to determine its breed.
In many cases, you can determine a cat’s breed simply by looking at it. Many breeds have distinct physical characteristics, though it may not be quite so simple of you have a mixed-breed cat.
If you want to determine your cat’s genetics, the Basepaws cat DNA test can help you do it. This kit compares your cat’s genetics against the largest cat DNA database in the world to help you better understand his breed composition. You’ll receive a report detailing your cat’s breed groups and a list of wild cats he’s genetically related to.
There is a long list of distinctive cat breeds that exhibit the tabby coloration, including:
The Abyssinian tabby is generally a friendly and affectionate breed but also quite active. These tabbies require plenty of exercise and mental stimulation to prevent them from getting bored and exhibiting destructive behaviors.
American Bobtails are also quite interactive and form strong bonds with family. These cats have a playful side – they love to play games with their owners – and they have strong hunting instincts. This breed is generally fairly quiet, though many chirp, trill, or click when they get excited.
The Birman is a large breed that typically grows over 12 pounds. While these cats typically display a pointed coat pattern, they can have tabby points. Birmans are a somewhat reserved and often jealous breed that tends to bond closely with one member of the family. They can be a tad territorial with other cats, but they are generally not aggressive.
The Oriental generally only weighs 8 to 12 pounds, but they are very slender with long legs and a long face. These cats are highly intelligent and can be trained more easily than other breeds. They also tend to be quite affectionate and love to spend time with their owners.
Scottish Folds are known for their small, rounded ears that are folded downward against the head. These cats come in a wide variety of colors and patterns, including the tabby pattern, and they can have medium-long to long hair. In terms of personality, the Scottish Fold is sweet-tempered and adaptable, but they do tend to bond with one person in the family.
Every tabby cat is unique in terms of genetics and breeding, so you’ll have to spend some time getting to know your own tabby. Stock up on cat toys and spend some quality time with your cat every day.

Wish you could learn more about the genes that make your cat special? Cat DNA testing could be the answer. Click here to read our review of the Basepaws cat DNA test kit.
The term tabby doesn’t refer to a breed but to a coat pattern commonly seen in cats, so it’s difficult to make generalizations about the tabby’s personality. Many tabby owners say, however, that their cats are friendly and affectionate.
Again, because tabby is a coat pattern rather than a breed it’s hard to make broad statements. Some of the most expensive tabby breeds are the American Wirehair, the Scottish Fold, and the Norwegian Forest Cat. Mixed-breed cat with tabby coloration are generally the most affordable.
Generally speaking, cats can live as long as 15 to 20 years when they are properly cared for. Indoor cats tend to live longer than outdoor cats by several years.
It depends on the breed. Longhair tabby cats actually tend to shed less than shorthaired cats, surprising as it may be. That being said, longhair tabbies may require more grooming and coat maintenance.
In general tabbies may grow to 12-17 inches long, 10-12 inches tall, weighing at around 9-23 lbs. Like most cats they typically stop growing at 13 – 18 months
I never knew what type my cat was but I do know she is a patched tabby. her name is teo we got her in 2015 because a family member treated he bad and her first owner he locked he in the basement and one day he didn’t see her tail in the door way and the beginning of her tail is broken.
Ouch! I’m glad you’ve given the cat a wonderful new home. Thanks for sharing!
There was a feral gray spotted tabby near our house but it seems to have moved away. I unsure if it could be a mackerel tabby.
I have a rescue cat…..was probably a stray but not a feral…..has a tabby face and looks like a tortishell body…..but this is my first cat, so don’t know a lot of how you decide what a cat may be  …..so what would this cat be classified as…..I would post a picture but not sure it is possible on here;
Hi Gary, it’s possible that your cat is both! Tortoiseshell-tabbies (sometimes referred to as reverse tortoiseshell) are also known as Torbies. Cats can also develop patches of different colors and patterns. You’re right, it is hard to tell sometimes!
I have a male tabby cat that is grey with black stripes, that looks like the picture above, and he is such a sweetheart.  He’s very energetic and he doesn’t meow he whines.  He’s not in pain that’s how he is.  He loves to jump up on my lap curl up and fall asleep.  He’s my buddy.  I also have a female patch tabby who is 9 months old and she is another sweetheart and when it was cold she’ll come up on  the bed to sleep with me.  Her name is Minnie and my boy’s name is Percy.  This kind of breed of cats are great to own and they do become part of the family and not just that they are family.
I have a Tabby he is 6 months old and was nuterd 2 weeks ago. He has beautiful markings I have never saw another one like him.
Glad you found this special little guy!
We rescued Kayla, a 1 year old listed as DSH By the shelter. We have tried to figure out if DSH is correct, but hours of research on cat breeds still leaves us guessing. Tuxedo Tabby is the closest we can get in naming *what* she is, but that’s not a breed. Is there some site, yours or elsewhere, where we can upload a photo to get an answer?
Hello Walter, unfortunately, we don’t have a page like that at this time, but we may in the future. For now, you might want to visit this forum on The CatSite forums—it’s dedicated to exactly what you’re looking for: https://thecatsite.com/forums/describing-cats-what-does-my-cat-look-like.5809/
All the best!
I have a brown with a black top coat and black and grey strips with the M on his forehead  one of the sweetest cat I’ve ever had.his name is Minky.because of his color.
I have an orange big outdoor cat that stares at me through sliding doors.  Fed him an$ comes back everyday for food. After he eats he wants to come in, satires at me!   I may let him in ? Advice
I have a brown tabby cat named Tiger 🙂
I have a black cat with black tabby markings is he rare and hes got Amber eyes
I have an unusually marked white and grey cat with a tabby tail. Almost looks siamese. His sister is a calico that also has a some tabby markings. Has anyone ever heard of this?
I feel like no one is answering anyone’s questions.  Mitzi, my beautiful little 6.5 lb classic brown tabby, hated being picked up and definitely preferred other cats to me early in her life.  She was an 8 week old feral kitten when I adopted her.  Her mother had been trapped at a used car dealership and I dropped in to see about the “free kittens” sign about 20 minutes before ASPCA showed up to collect the mixed litter and mama cat, who was a silver spotted tabby and in a rage over being caged had managed to hang by her claws from the top of the cat as she tried to scream and spit her way out.
Mitzi did not like getting picked up.  Her sister, Sonja, thought it was the best thing that ever happened to her–sh was born to not be feral. Mitzi took years of picking up.  Initially I could only pick her up like a lamb–her chest would be against my left bicep and her body against my chest and my other arm would lock her in.  And we’d try holding just past toleration.  Once she settled–a pause in irritation or antsy-ness past the initial hold–I would let her go.  Over several years she’d repeat, and then slowly, she stopped needing to be picked up and held in a certain way, and then slowly she started to want to be held.  My experience was that I had to be willing to play the long game.  Now she wants to be picked up–completely different cat at almost 15 than 1, 3 or even 6.  I wish you luck in figuring out your cat–I’m convinced that if you are persistent in trying and find those moments where your cat can bear interaction a moment longer, then a moment longer, etc., then you will get to the relationship you want.
I have a brown patch tabby that’s 17 yrs old, but lately has had some issues with her litter box she stays inside quite often without doing anything . What can help
I have a gray and black tabby cat it has a m on its forehead plus it has six toes in front it is a mixed cat the mother was Tabby and the father has six toes on each feet so my cat has 6 toes in front and it has the m on its forehead
I have a tabby cat plus it has six toes on the front of its paws I believe it’s very rare plus it has the m and she is great and black
I SORELY MISS my deceased, GORGEOUS Tabby cat, Bella. She was SO unique and just so BEAUTIFUL. She passed away from kidney failure on November 11, 2017. I MISS my little bangle tiger.  🙁
We have a 2 year old female black tabby that we got as a kitten. She is not very loving or affectionate. She likes to be alone and when we try to hold her she meows and then growls and hisses and wants down. She just doesn’t seem to want to bond with anyone but me…..Mom. And that’s only for brief moments in the mornings occasionally. We try giving her treats, getting involved with interactive kitty toys, even putting her kitty bed in our common family area in a quiet corner….still nothing. We didn’t get a kitten 2 years ago to have it hide from us all the time and hate us. What do we do?
Oh I can so relate to this. I had the same experience with our last cat. We kept her for 7 years , hoping she would get a little more friendly. We got her young and treated her very lovingly all the time, but never got the pet we wanted. Always felt a little selfish, since with a cat, it’s not about you, it’s about the cat. So we just put up with it, and promised ourselves that when she got sick we would not spend money trying to cure her. At about 7 years old…she started getting a lot worse…biting me to bleeding, biting like she wanted to break my bones. Started crying whenever her father left..like the whole neighborhood thought we were torturing her. She bit a couple of visitors to the point of bleeding. Then one day, we decided enough was enough. We heard a story of a similar situation of the same kind of cat attacking her mom and the mom still has scars in her face from it. We cried a lot, and blamed ourselves, and felt like we were taking life from a still very alive cat for our own pleasure and felt really horrible about it and still do. But it was approaching dangerous. So we decided to bring her on a trip to the vet, try to love her and comfort her, and give her a quick painless death. Something was troubling that cat in the head.
One week later we rescued a 12 week kitten. It was a little skittish. They let us take him home for 2 days and return her if it didn’t work out. This little kitten with 45 minutes was sleeping on my chest and is inseparable from me.Purrs like it’s going out of style, sleeps on my chest at night. And follows me around hoping for a pat and a cuddle. So wonderful. My other cat never purrs in 7 years, never came to me for a cuddle, never accepted a cuddle, hissed at me at times, scratched me at times, didn’t let me put the full length of her body one time without throwing a punch at me. Never slept with me.
I know many cat activists would say I should have kept the cat and found a way to deal with her behavior. I tried everything. I spent a lot of money and effort with that cat. Could not be happier with this kitten….that’s what a pet is suppose to be…to bring some joy. I know your pain. Euthanize him/her. Life is too short. There are many other kittens looking for a good home. One is waiting for you. Do NOT try to give the cat away. Others may decide to hurt him for his behavior, or dump him somewhere…best to put the cat out of its mental torture before it gets worse. You love him and don’t want him to have pain or torture or abuse….let him go. Sorry to say this and I’m sure some will think I’m terrible, but hopefully it makes sense to you.
I agree with you 100%  That cat was Miserable and some animals are just born that way as are some people. I had a feral cat for 13 years and even being born wild she was a good loving cat. We just adopted 2 Tabby brothers got them at 6 weeks and they are just a joy very loving and want to be with us all the time even follow us to the bathroom and scratch at the door. you just have to know it was not anything you did or did not do you will be doing the cat a favor putting her out of her misery.
She is unlikely to hate you. Cats have different personalities, just as we do. It sounds as if you have an introvert there, who just needs some alone time, or if could simply mean that you are not allowing her enough sleep time. Kittens need more sleep than grown up cats. You aren’t expecting her to be constantly playful are you?
If possible, close off one room to be with her and turn the air conditioner on. Cats are heat seekers. Once she realizes that your lap is a warm spot, it should be easier to bond with her. Giving her favourite treats only when she is sitting on or beside you is also a way to get close to her. Good luck. I wish I had read this post six years ago.
We recently. adopted a black and grey tabby.  He was declawed and neutered and is micro chipped.  He is a little over a uear old…not quite twi yet.  A lot of times…he will nip at us when we pick him up or by just being playful….not sure if it is because he has been declawed.  How do we get him to stop nipping? Other than that…he is very friendly and playful….our little baby has a unique personality and we love him to pieces.
In my experience, there are two reasons a cat will nip–overstimulation and interactive response.  I had a kitten who was a nipper.  I remember waking up one morning to a pain on my nose, opening my eyes and seeing this kitten yelling a me.  She didn’t like me sleeping in and bit the tip of my nose–at 8 weeks that was all she could manage.  But she nipped at everything.  My aunt had had a lot of cats and suggested “controlling her bite” by putting the tip of my finger in her mouth when she tried to bite.  The first time I tried it, the little kitten pulled her head back and flattened her ears.   What had happened!  I had to repeat it at most another two times and then when she seemed ready to nip, all I had to do was point my finger at her, and she would take on this offended posture–head back, ears back–no nip.  I would then stop pointing, her offense would last a second or two past that, and we’d go back to what we were doing before the impending nip.   I’d have say it was about two to three years of sensing when she was getting too worked up to pause petting her and be prepared to point, when suddenly, instead of starting the nip point cycle, she licked my elbow instead.  My initial response was surprise, but immediately I thought that I’d take this over nipping any day.  I came to understand in that moment that it was very important to Mitzi to express herself through her mouth.  It’s just how she communicated.  She liked being groomed by other cats, she liked grooming other cats–she was always using her mouth in a tactile manner to express herself.  It was a few more years before I wasn’t on guard with her for the occasional nip, but she turns 15 in two months, and unless she is pretty high on cat nip and we’ve been playing hide and seek on her cat tower or petting her in a manner that I’m aware works her up, I have no worries about her nipping.  The behavior can be worked with, but it takes time and patience.  Now I know you have an older cat–longer, sharper teeth means more is at stake.  In the case of my little kitten, every time I controlled the bite, it resulted in no bite at all.  Cats do love to take offense–and expressing appall at the violation of her control was always more important than finishing the nip.  I can’t guarantee the same results–a cat is much quicker than a kitten–but I think it is important to look at the behavior from the perspective of what the cat is trying to get out of it.
Do not jam your finger in the cat’s mouth–there’s no need to hurt the the cat.  I barely made any contact at all with my cat when trying this technique.
Mitzi is a brown classic tabby with 4 white paws and a white bib, by the way.
I wish we could teach Pippin not to bite. His is way more than a nip – he will literally grab us by the hand or arm. With his claws, then BITE. Really hard. He has left quite a few puncture wounds and bleeding claw marks on both my husband and myself. I replied to a previous question with Pippin’s story, the long version, so I’ll make it quicker here. He was raised with 2 Great Danes and then abandoned outside (he was an indoor cat) when his owners decided not to take him with them when they moved. You can tell he grew up rough housing with 2 large dogs (or defending himself, not sure which) because he can be very aggressive if he gets overstimulated. I’m working with him to on voice commands and he’s *starting* to understand that if I yell “Ouch Pippin, no, that hurts” that he’s hurting me. We’re up to him releasing me 1/2 the time now with the vocal cues. I’m still buying stock in alcohol, Neosporin and Band Aids, but I can see progress being made slowly. I keep telling him that we won’t give up on him and abandon him like his previous owners did. Luckily my husband is of the same opinion! Sorry…it turned out long anyway, but the gist was that are trying to tame a jungle cat and so far are finding that tons of patience and verbal cues are what he reacts to best. When he’s not overstimulated he is the sweetest baby and even still has a little kitten squeak when he sees us. BTW, we have had him vetted and neutered. Our vet is of the opinion that it’s just going to take patience and him getting older for his aggressive side to calm down. She said he’s perfectly healthy, he just appears to have had a rough kittenhood.
I have a gray tabby…4 yrs…he showed up on my porch At almost 1 yr old…whenever he nibbles on my hand, I calmly say “kisses”… he will stop nibbling + lick my hand…He does this 99% of the time….lotsa times, when not nibbling,I say kisses, he will give me kisses…just gotta continue to train them…be patient…Just continue repeating with other stuff too…good luck to u…peace/hugs
You could well be right in pointing to the declaring as the source of trouble. It is a traumatic thing and leaves the poor cat with pain, as well as rendering the poor creature defenceless against any attacks.
Talk to your vet about ways to help her. God bless you
I have two cream and white tabbys they are very large cats, I obtained one of them  from a neighbor who has a feral colony all cream and white tabbys one calico female. All the  cream tabbys are exceptionally large cats. Is this a trait of this color of cats.  I have an orange and white tabby no where near as large. So I’m wondering if  beige tabbys are mostly large cats. Sounds silly I know but I have noticed a lot of personality and physical traits over the years that seem to be color specific. Am I just wrong or am I on to something.
Chicken-only is a bad diet for a cat, even short-term. They must have taurine in their diets, either as a supplement or within the commercially-produced food. Sorry your guy is having eating issues, and what a tough way to start life, too. Consult a vet or vet call-in line, maybe they can help guide you?
I have two cats one is 3 yrs old and a tabby that is 7 mos old. the 7  mo gulps his food down and , now and then will upchuck  his food  within 2 hrs of eating. I have put his food in a egg carton, he doe not like this at all, i put it in a bowl with a golf ball, this kind of slows him down, i feed him a very small portion at a time. He was thrown out of a car window and I adopted him, I was wondering if the original owners did not feed him like they should have and this made him want to gulp his food down. How do I teach him to eat slowly, what do I do to help his upchucking???  I feed the older cat up on the counter to separate them.  The two of them get along very well. I have also put him on a two day diet of chicken only  Please Help. .
I rescued a starving kitten too, and she is now 13 years old. She eats like her food will disappear any second and then sometimes throws it up like your kitty. I found spreading the food on a dinner plate helps. The other cats have bowls and she has a plate. And smaller amounts of food more frequently rather than large meals.
I have 5 cats, all rescues. The two oldest are brothers who prove that a litter can all have different fathers. One is a long-tailed Siamese (mix but just looks Siamese) and the other is a black & white bobtail. The two in the middle are both orange tabby females, one with white included (the other is just orange tabby with no white). The youngest is a somewhat unusual male…his color/coat is called a “diluted gray marble tabby”. He just turned a year old and we’ve had him since he was around 8 months old. His previous owners moved and decided that their indoor kitten could survive just fine outside on his own with no food/water/shelter with winter coming on. (Needless to say that didn’t happen, because we rescued him.) Anyway, the point of my rather long & drawn out story is that he was that way at first. He would literally act insane at meal time. He’d eat so fast that he would choke himself. Then he would throw up part of what he had managed to eat. His previous owners also had 2 Great Danes and he probably had to swallow his food practically whole if he wanted to eat. He was terrified that one of the other cats would steal his food. The 2 things that I found that worked the best were A) feeding him in a completely different part of the house when we feed wet food (which is more of a special treat, not a main meal) and B) for the main food, we leave out multiple bowls of their favorite dry food. Because there are multiple bowls and that food is always available, he doesn’t feel like he’s got to rush and try to get it all down at once. In the 4 months we’ve had him we still maintain a separate feeding area (different room) for the wet food, but with the dry food he’ll sit and eat slowly,  allowing him to digest his food properly. Hopefully something in the story of Pippin’s journey might help with your baby. ?
Betty – give your new cat time to realise that food comes regularly and he does not need to wolf his food down in a hurry. My own cat had a similar problem when I got her. She had been in a cattery and had to be quick to get to the food or go without. Give him time to get the idea that food comes and he will have enough to eat.
My daughters tabby gave birth to a beige and faun tabby with blue eyes he has dark tabby tail and ears what would those colours say about his genetics. He is very unusual and beautiful.so attractive frightened he could be stolen.
I hava an extreamly cute’n’adorable orangr tabby cat
Hello. I have a question. I recently brought a kitten home to my daughter. She is a tabby cat with the most unusual coat. I used to help my sister rescue cats and have a lot of experience with them as we had up to 30 felines up for adoption at a time, yet I am stumped on this one.
Her face is Tabby w/the usual white trim around the eyes and on her snout with a black nose. She has blueish grey eyes and its looking they are not going to change at this point (many kittens start with blueish greyish eyes that eventually turn to a brownish/yellowish color). Her front arms are Grey with black stripes, her tummy is white and spotted black. Now this is where I am a bit confused… The rest of her coat is predominantly black. The top of her head has two tan stripes that go down to the middle of the back of her neck then stop. Then start again on her back and go all the way down to her tail (looks like a chipmunk coat minus the white trim) then she has three beige/tan stripes on either side of her coat in the same exact spots on both sides along with a few smaller beige/tan stripes that seem to compliment the longer stripes only the smaller stripes are located higher up on the side of her coat and once again the patterns match perfectly on both sides of the cat.
Simply put, I understand that a cats coat is not a cats breed ie. Tabby is not a breed. Although, a cats coat is an indication of a cats breed or specific breeds including hybrids have certain characteristics and/or markings on their coats, which I understand vary but only so much.
My confusion stems from the fact that my tabby doesn’t seem to fall under any of the cat breeds or breed characteristics.
She is a very cute cat and I would love to hear what others think. I have a lot of pics because she is so unique looking… I call her “Chipmunk cat” because she looks like a chipmunk!
P.s. I have only seen such unique or different coats on ferel cats yet this cat came from litter number three from my friends domestic cat.
If a picture will help I will send some.
Put a pic of your cat on here.  Sounds like an interesting coat of fur.
Michael, your cat sounds charming. Would love to see a picture of her. It doesn’t matter if she doesn’t fully fit a category. Mine doesn’t either. The important thing is love. You said that she has some white fur. She is probably a tabby-and-white. Also, there may be a mix of different kinds of tabby in her. Kittens in the same litter are sometimes fathered by different tom-cats. I hope that she will be spayed when she is old enough. Spayed cats live longer, healthier lives than unspayed.
Do not feed her any human food its very bad for them.however i own tabby torti an calico..its recommended by bets to mix wet with dry .hlf can wet typically friskies followed by dry mix it together an your cat will eat an love you.also introduce treats .pounce treats or greenies
Hello Kerry Grey. ”Human food” such as meat, is best for a cat. Not the wet food you buy in cans. I feed my cats (ragdoll and tabby) Chicken Soup for the Soul and they love the stuff. My ragdoll doesn’t like any human food but my tabby absolutely loves meat. He learned from my dogs how to beg to get meat haha.
Absolutely wrong Bee. Cats cannot digest sodium in the level that humans can. if you feed the cat a BARF diet or something where they are eating raw meat regularly, that could make sense. Giving them high sodium sausages and soups will almost assuredly cause them to have kidney and blood pressure (sight) complications down the line.
I have a dark black an grey Tabby cat, she is two years old now I rescued her.in Nov 2016. Animal shelter.  I love her, she likes eating meat loves Jimmy Dean sausage for breakfast. An chicken breast at night, what do they like to eat normal, cz she don’t like dry food….
In the wild, cats eat small birds and small rodents, and that is what ferals and strays eat. Modern day house cats, however, are not properly equipped to hunt, although they still have the hunting instinct. A good diet for cats nowadays is a combination of wet food and dry food. My own cat has wet food in the morning and dry food plus a dish of water in the evening. When you feed your cat dry food it is important that they have water nearby.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Alex Zotov, Shutterstock
Last Updated on March 12, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click to Skip Ahead
Knowing that Tabby is a color pattern and not a breed, many cat owners ask, “What breed is my Tabby?” Below, we’ll discuss the methods you can use to figure it out!

Before determining what breed of cat your Tabby is, it’s helpful to know about the Tabby patterns. There are five of them, including:
Often called a “blotched” Tabby, the classic pattern consists of whorls resembling targets. And, of course, most Tabbies have the unmistakable “M” marking on their forehead.
Rings on their legs and tails, plus stripes covering the rest of the cat’s body, are the signs of a mackerel Tabby.
This Tabby type, often called tortoiseshell, is made when a cat has patches of red and orange along with the Tabby pattern.
Various sizes and bands of spots identify this type of Tabby. Some can be broken, making the spotted Tabby look similar to the mackerel Tabby.
A lack of noticeable bands and stripes set this Tabby type apart, but you can still see bands of light and dark coloring on their hair, called “ticking.”

As we’ve seen, many breeds can be Tabby cats. The methods you can use to determine the breed of your cat look beyond the Tabby pattern and focus on other traits seen in particular breeds.
Size is one of the easiest ways to determine the breed of cat. That’s because there are only three main sizes of cats, including dwarf, medium, and large. If your Tabby is exceptionally small, they might be a Balinese or Singapura. Medium-sized Tabbies can be Abyssinian, Oriental, and several others. If your Tabby is large, they could be a Maine Coon, Savannah, or Siberian cat.
There are four types of cat hair: long, short, curly, and hairless. Surprisingly, a Sphinx cat, which is hairless, can still be a Tabby cat since the markings that make a cat a Tabby will be seen on their skin!
A Persian, Ragdoll, or Himalayan can also be a Tabby. The American Shorthair cat tells you the length of their coat in their name and can be a Tabby cat, and the Abyssinian can also be a Tabby with medium-length hair.
Cats can possess three types of ear features: ear tufts, folded ears, and curled ears. The American Curl, not surprisingly, is one curled breed that can be a Tabby, and the Scottish Fold, with their folded ears, can also have the Tabby pattern. If your Tabby cat has tufted ears, they could be a Maine Coon, Ragdoll, or American Lynx, among others.
Although this method of determining the breed of your Tabby cat isn’t the easiest, it can provide clues. This is especially true if your Tabby cat has a flat face, like a Persian, or a narrow face, like a Cornish Rex.
Another method of determining your Tabby’s breed is to look at their tail, but, like the shape of a cat’s face, this one is also rather difficult. The American Bobtail cat can be a Tabby, and the Manx with their short tail can also be. Besides the length, however, determining the breed of a cat by their tail alone isn’t the most accurate method as they all look similar.
Using your cat’s manners and character to tell their breed is probably the most challenging method. The reason is that, like people, all cats are unique individuals with unique mannerisms and characters. However, if your Tabby cat is shy and non-aggressive, they could be a Persian, Ragdoll, or British Shorthair. An affectionate Tabby that seeks out human contact could be a Korat or Devon Rex.

We’ve discussed visual markers to determine your Tabby’s breed, so let’s look at some tools you can use to do the same.
Several apps can help you determine your Tabby’s breed, including Cat Scanner.
You’ll find many quizzes online to help you determine your Tabby cat’s breed. You should note, however, that they aren’t scientific and rely primarily on anecdotal evidence.
DNA testing is one of the best tools to determine your Tabby’s breed. Several companies perform the testing and let you know your cat’s breed and overall health.
One of the most accurate methods of determining your Tabby’s breed is asking your veterinarian. They have years of experience and training that can come in handy when you want to know your Tabby’s specific breed.

Almost all genetic lines of domesticated cats can come in the Tabby pattern, making it difficult to determine their exact breed. We hope the information in this article will help you determine your Tabby’s lineage and give you insight into their personality and heritage. Regardless of their breed, if you have a Tabby cat you adore, their breed might not matter to you. Best of luck discovering the breed of your beloved feline!
See Also:
How Big Do Tabby Cats Get?
Featured Image Credit: Alex Zotov, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Calling all feline aficionados! Today, we’re focusing on one of the most widespread and enchanting cats in the world – the tabby. With their distinctive coat patterns and winsome personalities, these cats have undoubtedly caught your attention before.
But what precisely is a tabby cat? A particular breed? A coat color? Or perhaps a certain personality type?.
Tabby cats have a secret: they’re not a breed at all! The term “tabby” actually describes a coat pattern that appears in many different cat breeds and even in mixed-breed kitties.
You can spot a tabby by the classic “M” shape on their forehead and the characteristic stripes, dots, and swirls that create a unique design on their fur. These felines are like walking, meowing canvases, each with its own special charm.
Inside This Article
If you’ve ever seen a cat with a coat of stripes, dots, or swirling patterns, chances are you were looking at a tabby cat. But here’s the thing: “tabby” isn’t actually a breed. It’s a coat pattern that’s common across many different breeds of cats.
In fact, the tabby pattern is so common that about two-thirds of the world’s cat population are tabbies. It’s like the feline equivalent of having brown hair – it just pops up everywhere.
When it comes to coat colors, tabbies are the ultimate fashionistas of the feline world. They effortlessly pull off any shade, from earthy browns and sophisticated grays to fiery oranges and mysterious blacks.
And here’s the kicker: the tabby pattern isn’t just a one-breed wonder. It’s like the secret handshake of the cat kingdom, showing up in breeds as diverse as the exotic Bengal and the all-American American Shorthair.
Interestingly, the tabby pattern isn’t just for show. It actually served a purpose for cats’ wild ancestors, helping them blend into their surroundings. Today, it’s a common part of the domestic cat’s appearance.
Not all tabby cats are created equal. There are actually five distinct tabby patterns, each with its own unique look. Let’s break them down:
The mackerel tabby is probably what you picture when you think of a “tiger cat.” They have narrow stripes that run parallel down their sides, like a fish skeleton (hence the name “mackerel”). This is the most common tabby pattern.
Classic tabbies have bold, swirling patterns on their sides that are often said to look like marble cake. They’re sometimes called “blotched” tabbies for their distinctive markings.
As you might guess, spotted tabbies have spots of varying shapes and sizes all over their coats. From dots to rosettes, these cats have a wild look.
Ticked tabbies (also called Abyssinian tabbies or agouti tabbies) are a bit of an oddball. They don’t have the traditional stripes or spots, but if you look closely, you’ll see that each hair has alternating light and dark bands, giving them a “salt-and-pepper” appearance.
So we know tabbies are lookers, but what about their personalities? Since tabbies can be found across many breeds, it’s hard to pin down one specific “tabby temperament.” That said, many tabby owners report that their cats share some common traits:
Tabbies are often described as affectionate and cuddly cats who love to snuggle up with their humans. They tend to form strong bonds with their favorite people.
Tabby cats are known for being smart cookies. They’re curious, quick learners, and can even be trained to do tricks (or at least come when called).
These frisky felines never lose their playful spirit, even as they grow up. They’re always ready for a game of chase or to explore every nook and cranny. Keep them entertained with puzzle toys and plenty of interactive playtime.
Tabbies are adaptable cats who can thrive in many different living situations, from apartments to houses with yards. As long as they have plenty of love, stimulation, and a comfy spot to nap, they’re happy campers.
While tabbies can show up in any breed (or mix of breeds), some cat breeds are especially known for their tabby coats. If you’re smitten with the tabby look, consider one of these pawesome breeds:
The Maine Coon is a large, lovable cat breed that often sports a classic or mackerel tabby coat. With their impressive size and lush fur, these gentle giants are hard to miss.
The all-American tabby. American Shorthairs are known for their classic good looks, which often include tabby markings. They’re mellow, family-friendly cats.
Want a tabby cat that looks like it belongs in the wild? Check out the Bengal. These mini leopards have striking spotted or marbled tabby coats and tons of energy and smarts.
My own Bengal kitty has a rather demure coat for the breed, with poorly defined rosettes and a more general spotted tabby appearance. But, as you can see in the photo below, she does indeed have the very striking tabby “M” on her forehead that is so typical in this breed!
The Egyptian Mau is an elegant spotted tabby breed. They’re the only naturally spotted domestic cat, and they’ve got the moves to match – Maus are known for being super athletic.
These fluffy felines often have tabby coats to go with their rugged good looks. Norwegian Forest Cats are built for cold climates, but they have warm, friendly personalities.
No matter what breed (or mix) your tabby cat is, one thing’s for sure: they deserve the best care. Here are some tabby-tastic tips:
Feed your tabby a high-quality diet that’s appropriate for their age and activity level. Chat with your vet about the best cat food for your feline friend.
Don’t skip those annual vet visits. Regular check-ups can help catch any health issues early and keep your tabby feeling their best.
Tabby cats’ grooming needs can vary based on their coat length and texture. Short-haired tabbies may only need weekly brushing, while long-haired kitties might require daily grooming to prevent tangles and mats.
To keep your tabby’s agile brain and energetic spirit thriving, provide them with a variety of enriching experiences.
Puzzle feeders tap into their natural hunting instincts, while scratching posts offer a healthy outlet for their desire to scratch. Window perches give them a front-row seat to the outside world, and interactive toys strengthen your bond through play.
By offering these stimulating activities, you’ll have one content and mentally sharp feline companion.
So, there you have it – the lowdown on the captivating world of tabby cats. From their mesmerizing coat patterns to their charming personalities, these felines are full of surprises. Whether you’re a proud tabby parent or just a cat lover in general, it’s hard not to be smitten by these striking beauties.
Tabby cats are like snowflakes – no two are exactly the same. From their intricately patterned coats to their unique personalities, each tabby is a true individual. So, the next time one crosses your path, take a moment to appreciate all the little details that make them so special.
And if you’re ready to add a feline friend to your family, remember that the wonderful world of tabbies has something for everyone. With such a wide variety of breeds and personalities available, your perfect match is out there waiting for you.
Tabby cats are the ultimate pet for anyone who appreciates a combination of beauty, faithfulness, and endless amusement. So, if you’re ready to take the plunge and become a cat parent, consider opening your heart and home to a tabby. You won’t be disappointed – that’s a promise.

[Image credits: All images are used under license or with permission]
Dr. Wendy Wilkins is an experienced veterinarian and epidemiologist with over 20 years of expertise. She holds a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) degree and a Doctorate in Epidemiology from the University of Saskatchewan. 

Throughout her career, Dr. Wilkins has excelled in clinical practice, academia, research, and regulatory veterinary medicine. She is a respected voice in knowledge dissemination, delivering factual information in a readable and understandable manner through articles, books, and public engagements.
--------------------------------------------------
The Tabby isn’t a cat breed but rather a certain cat pattern. So the Tabby has lots of different coat colors and patterns and the cat comes in different sizes.
You get the mackerel Tabby, the classic Tabby, the spotty Tabby and the ticked Tabby. The Tabby is a domestic cat. It is thought that today’s Tabby’s originated from the African wild cat because the markings are so similar.
The Tabby is any domestic cat. They’ve got a distinctive 'M' shaped marking on their forehead.
The Tabby cat isn’t a breed of cat but actually a coat type and in fact, there are quite a few cat breeds with the Tabby pattern.
Tabby is a color pattern in other words and it means you will find stripes, spots, and whorls of color. Tabby cats can range in size because of the different breeds. They can be medium to large and weight between 3 and 7kg.
The eye and ear shape will also vary according to the different breeds as well as the thickness of the tail.
Your Tabby is a friendly, social cat. He makes an excellent pet and companion. The orange and ginger tabbies are more feisty and strong-willed. These cats cat can be any personality really and you might have an aloof cat but you could also have a highly social, vocal Tabby.
Most times you will get an active, playful, friendly cat that will love the company of his human family.
When you bring a Tabby cat into your home, you can't tell what personality he will have. A lot depends on the lifestyle you provide him with.
Some Tabby cats are social and friendly while others are more shy. One thing is sure, they all thrive on the love and attention of their human families. This popular cat is guaranteed to make you a most wonderful pet and companion.
Many cats can develop liver and kidney troubles as they get older so it’s important to visit a vet regularly in order to make sure they are in good health.
Most domesticated tabby cats live for 12 to 15 years and this means you can enjoy many years of good friendship from your Tabby.
The liver is an important organ with a host of functions. We know it plays an important role in removing toxic substances from the blood. Because this organ works to rid the body of so many different substances, it can become damaged.
Liver disease results in inflammation, which is known as hepatitis. If left, it can lead to loss of function because of scar tissue. Luckily, liver disease in cats can be treated and managed,
Age, certain diseases and certain breeds of cats are more susceptible to liver disease. Obesity too, can contribute to liver disease. The signs of liver disease are weight loss, increased thirst, vomiting, drooling, jaundice and loss of appetite.
If your cat is diagnosed with liver disease, speak to your vet about a special diet for your cat.
When your cat is a Tabby, he could have short or long fur, and a weekly brushing will be necessary to remove dead hairs and dust from the coat.
While you brush your cat, feel for any irregularities such as lumps or cuts. A lump should be examined by the vet.
As already mentioned, good food is key to good health, and as your cat is a carnivore, he will require meat. There are many excellent cat food manufacturers who produce cat food with all the nutrients your feline friend requires.
If your pet needs to be transported anywhere, such as to the vet, make sure he can be carried safely by putting him in a cat carrier box.
--------------------------------------------------
