LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Planning on adopting a Tibetan Mastiff and would like to know if Tibetan Mastiffs are good with cats?
Learn all about Tibetan Mastiff cat friendliness and how to make your Tibetan Mastiff get along better with felines on this page.



A typical error a lot of people make is believing that all pet dogs dislike cats and vice versa. This isn’t true and there are lots of pet breeds that are good with felines. Dogs that aren’t naturally feline friendly can also be trained to be much safer around felines.
According to experienced Tibetan Mastiff dog experts, Tibetan Mastiff dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of how safe they are with cats.



Despite the misconception, a lot of pet dogs and felines can cohabit in harmony. Follow these simple to follow steps to get to know how to best introduce your Tibetan Mastiff with a cat.


Not all Tibetan Mastiffs detest felines, some get along with them. When Tibetan Mastiffs do dislike felines, of the most common factor is quite straightforward. Like all pet dogs, Tibetan Mastiffs still keep a few of the hunting instincts that they were originally bred for. This is why Tibetan Mastiffs love going after all moving things, whether it’s a ball, rodent, or a cat.
Given that many cats will flee when they come across, it’s simple to see why they are known for not being friendly with each other. Tibetan Mastiffs in fact enjoy chasing after cats not since they hate them, however primarily because a fast running animal triggers a powerful, natural instinct to go after overcomes any training or socialisation.


Teaching your Tibetan Mastiff to quit going after cats takes some time, practice and consistency, however the reward of not having to stress over them continuously chasing is very well worth it. Here are the phases of how to stop your Tibetan Mastiff from going after cats.


The very best approach to ensure your Tibetan Mastiff would never kill a cat is to raise them with felines when they’re a pup before 3 months old. At this age, they will usually wish to play with the cats and won’t see them as prey.
If your Tibetan Mastiff has eliminated a feline previously, its best if you keep them in an open, enclosed area. When taking them for strolls try to avoid going after dusk and before dawn since that’s when felines are most active and likely to be roaming the streets.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
Menu
Ipo (pronounced EE-po) the Tibetan Mastiff at 2 ½ years old, photo courtesy of Mount Lemmon in Southern Arizona
tih-BEH-tuhn MAS-tif
The Tibetan Mastiff is a massive, giant dog with sturdy bone structure. The body is slightly longer than tall. The somewhat wrinkled head is broad, heavy and strong. The broad muzzle is square when viewed from all sides. The large nose is black. The teeth meet in a scissors or level bite. The upper lip usually covers the lower lip. The slightly slanting eyes are almond shaped, deep-set and medium in size. Eye color comes in shades of brown. The pendant ears are V-shaped, hanging forward close to the head. The neck is muscular and arched with a moderate dewlap. The dewlap is more prominent in males than in females. The topline is level. The feathered tail is curled over the back. The front legs are straight with feathering. The feet are cat-like and may have feathering between the toes. Dewclaws are sometimes removed. The double coat is immense and thick with a heavy mane around the neck and shorter hair on the head. The coat color comes in black, brown and blue-gray, all with or without tan markings and various shades of gold. It can also have white markings.
Some breeders have labeled the Tibetan Mastiff into two types, although both types are often born in the same litter: the Do-khyi and the Tsang-khyi. Tsang-khyi means "dog from Tsang" and is described as the "monastery" type. It is taller and heavier boned with more wrinkles around the face. The Do-khyi or "nomad" type is leaner with fewer wrinkles.
The Tibetan Mastiff is courageous, fearless, even-tempered, calm and thoughtful. Very loyal to its own family. Tends to bark at night if left outside, but will be quiet indoors. It is an outstanding flock guardian and is ferocious against wolves, leopards or any prey that try to approach its flock. It is easy to housebreak,  but matures later in life than the average breed. The Tibetan Mastiff needs a firm, confident, consistent pack leader to prevent it from becoming willful and stubborn, overprotective and territorial. These dogs have a strong desire to please their owners. They are loving with children, but can distrust and be reserved with strangers if not properly socialized. It comes naturally to this Mastiff to guard its family and their property. It has to be raised to adulthood in a careful, well-balanced manner. A stable, well-adjusted and trained dog is for the most part generally good with non-canine pets. It is possible for them to get along with other dogs if the owners are able to communicate with them that fighting is an unwanted behavior. Tibetan Mastiffs will not listen if they sense that they are stronger minded than their owners. Owners need to possess a natural air of authority to their demeanor. The objective in training this dog is to achieve pack leader status. It is a natural instinct for a dog to have an order in its pack. When we humans live with dogs, we become their pack. The entire pack cooperates under a single leader. Lines are clearly defined and rules are set. Because a dog communicates his displeasure with growling and eventually biting, all other humans MUST be higher up in the order than the dog. The humans must be the ones making the decisions, not the dogs. That is the only way your relationship with your dog can be a complete success. When owners make it absolutely clear they are alpha over the dog in a calm, but very firm manner, and the dog is well exercised, trained and socialized, it can be a very good family companion. This breed requires an experienced owner.
Height: 25 - 28 inches (61- 71 cm)
    Weight: 140 - 170 pounds (64 - 78 kg) Some European owners claim the dogs can weigh up to 220 pounds (99 kg), but the vast majority of these dogs have a weight that falls in the range stated above.
Prone to hip dysplasia, thyroid problems, skin conditions and ear infections. Also a genetic problem called Canine Inherited Demyelinative Neuropathy (CIDN), which is fatal. The disorder will be evident in puppies between 7 and 10 weeks of age and the pup will pass away by 4 months of age.
The Tibetan Mastiff can live in an apartment life if it is very well exercised. These dogs are not very active indoors.
About 15 or more years.
An average of 5 - 12 puppies. Tibetan Mastiff dams typically go into heat only once a year, whereas most other dogs go into heat twice a year.
The Tibetan Mastiff should be brushed regularly. In the winter the coat has an abundance of very thick hair, which sheds once a year for the duration of a month, when the weather gets warmer. During this time your dog should be brushed and combed every day. The Tibetan Mastiff is sometimes good for allergy sufferers, depending on the individual and the type of allergy they have.
The Tibetan Mastiff is descended from the famous Tibetan dogs that were the source of the majority of Molossers and Mastiffs throughout the world. The ancient Tibetan Mastiff may have been in existence as early as 1100 BC. These mastiffs developed into the Tibetan Mastiff we know today during the time period when they were isolated in the Himalayan mountains in Tibet for centuries. The dogs were used to guard property. Usually confined during the day and let loose at night, sometimes a single dog would guard an entire village. The dogs were often tied up as puppies to enhance aggressive tendencies. They were often left behind to guard the families and tents when the men left to move the flocks to higher pasture. It was not until Queen Victoria of England was given one of these dogs in the mid-1800s that they came out of isolation. It was not long before more dogs were imported to England. The British wrote up a standard and began to breed them. Marco Polo described the Tibetan Mastiff as "tall as a donkey with a voice as powerful as that of a lion." Tibetan Mastiffs were imported from India, Nepal, Ladakh and Afghanistan to the United States in the 1970s and were used as foundation stock for the breed. Now rare in Tibet, the Tibetan Mastiff is gaining popularity in both the United States and England. The American Tibetan Mastiff Association was formed in 1974 and serves as the breed's official registry and network in the United States. The Tibetan Mastiff was first recognized by the AKC in 2006. Some of the Tibetan Mastiff’s talents are livestock guardian and home guardian.
Mastiff
This breed can be shown at rare breed and American Tibetan Mastiff Association dog shows.
Brock the Tibetan Mastiff at 1 year old from India—"Brock is calm and gentle,but also has a strong tendency to bark in night, although he is very friendly."
Rambo the Tibetan Mastiff at 11 months old from India
Tibetan Mastiff puppies at 2 months old from India
Tibetan Mastiff puppy at 2 months old from India
Tibetan Mastiff named Legend's Abra- Cadrabra aka Abraham is from Legend's Tibetan Mastiff breeder's line.
Photo courtesy of Carolyn Rowell and Sherekhan Tibetan Mastiffs
Ipo the Tibetan Mastiff at 11 months old with her friend Azriel, a 5-year-old tabby cat
Mato the Tibetan Mastiff at 10½ months old with his little buddy Sport, a 6-month-old black kitten
Photo courtesy of Carolyn Rowell and Sherekhan Tibetan Mastiffs
Sherekhan's Chewbaccathe Tibetan Mastiff at 11 months old is pointed toward his ATMA and ARBA Championships. Photo courtesy of Sherekhan Tibetan Mastiffs
Max (Drakyi Max-A-Million)the Tibetan Mastiff, photo courtesy of Sno-Lyon Tibetan Mastiffs
Sage (Drakyi's Sage-Advice)the Tibetan Mastiff, photo courtesy of Sno-Lyon Tibetan Mastiffs
--------------------------------------------------
Centuries ago, Tibetan Mastiffs originated in Tibet as a primitive breed, primarily used for guarding in the tough Himalayan terrain. Today, these majestic dogs continue to fulfill their ancestral duties as guardians. They’ve also seamlessly adapted to life as cherished family companions. While once valued by farmers and herders, these dogs are now considered a luxury breed, ranking as number one for the most expensive dog in the world.
Despite their imposing size, these pups have hearts of gold, especially for their human families. Tibetan Mastiffs are renowned for their steadfast loyalty and affection towards their loved ones. They have a deeply ingrained guardian instinct, making them protective when strangers approach.  However, when introduced by trusted individuals, these gentle giants readily extend their warm embrace, demonstrating that their massive stature is equaled only by their immense love and devotion.
When considering a Tibetan Mastiff, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a dog in need. However, if you purchase a Tibetan Mastiff puppy, choosing a reputable breeder is crucial. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their dogs. Reputable Tibetan Mastiff breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their dogs, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the puppies. This active approach ensures you bring home a healthy and happy pup while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Are Tibetan Mastiffs friendly, or do their guardian instincts dominate their personality?
When evaluating the friendliness of Tibetan Mastiffs, it’s essential to consider their history and the traits they have been bred for. Primarily, these dogs served as guardians, a role that requires a high degree of independence, intelligence, and a protective instinct. Due to these ingrained traits, Tibetan Mastiffs exhibit a reserved nature, especially around strangers. This aloofness can be misinterpreted as unfriendliness, but it’s more accurate to say they are discerning in their affections.
Tibetan Mastiffs tend to form deep bonds with their family members. They display loyalty and a gentle demeanor towards those they trust. Their interactions with familiar faces can be affectionate and even playful, showcasing a stark contrast to their stoic presence around unknown individuals. This dichotomy in behavior underscores the importance of socialization for these dogs. Early and positive experiences with a variety of people, animals, and environments can help soften their cautious approach to newcomers.
However, their protective instinct is never far from the surface. A Tibetan Mastiff is always on alert and can become protective if they perceive a threat to their family. This behavior isn’t a sign of aggression but rather a manifestation of their deep-seated role as protectors. Training and socialization can help manage this trait, ensuring that their protective nature doesn’t escalate into unwarranted defensive actions.

Looking for the best dog for your apartment? Contrary to popular belief, the suitability of dogs who adapt well to apartment living goes beyond its size. Apartment dwellers have a myriad of dog breeds to choose from as potential companions, with various factors to consider. Some large breeds can adapt well to apartment living and have lower activity levels. Others may require more space and possess higher energy levels. On the other hand, certain small dog breeds with abundant energy can still find contentment with indoor playtime or brisk walks.


However, when selecting a dog that adapts well to apartments, it is essential to prioritize your neighbors. Opting for a pet that doesn’t excessively bark and behaves politely when encountering others in shared spaces is crucial. In apartment settings, it’s worth noting that numerous small dogs may exhibit a propensity for high energy and frequent barking. This can make them less suitable for apartment living. Rather than size alone, you’ll want to think about breeds who are quiet, low-energy, and sociable towards other residents.




Regardless of your pup’s inherent suitability to apartment living, you will want to invest in additional training to help them be their best selves. Training dogs not inherently suited to apartment living requires extra patience and consistency. Start by establishing clear boundaries and rules within your apartment to create a structured routine for your dog. Focus on basic obedience commands such as “sit”, “stay”, “come”, and “leave it”. Barking-related training commands including “hush” or “quiet” are also crucial. This training is essential for managing your dog’s behavior both indoors and outdoors.


Since space may be limited, prioritize leash training to ensure your dog walks calmly and obediently, especially in communal areas. Crate training can also help your dog feel safe and secure while you’re away from your apartment. This may help your pup avoid anxiety, which could lead to barking habits.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

When considering adding a dog to your home, it’s important to acknowledge that some dog breeds may present less of a challenge in terms of training and temperament. These dogs tend to be more adaptable, responsive to training, and resilient, readily overcoming any training hiccups or inconsistencies. As one might expect, these breeds may be good for novice dog owners.


Conversely, certain dogs may pose greater difficulties, particularly for first-time owners. Factors such as heightened sensitivity, independence, energy levels, or assertiveness can contribute to a more demanding ownership experience. Novice dog owners should assess their level of experience and comfort when selecting a new pet, ensuring compatibility with their lifestyle and capabilities for a mutually rewarding relationship.






For first-time or novice dog owners, pet ownership can be both exciting and daunting. As a bit of advice, research breeds thoroughly before bringing a dog home. Each breed has their unique traits, energy levels, and care requirements. Consider factors such as size, exercise needs, grooming demands, and temperament to find a breed that aligns with your lifestyle and preferences.


Prioritizing training and socialization at an early age is essential. You may want a breed who is more easy to train or perhaps possesses a lower energy level. Establishing clear boundaries and expectations early on lays the foundation for a well-behaved and well-adjusted dog. Basic obedience training such as teaching commands like sit, stay, and come, is crucial for effective communication and building a strong bond with your new best friend. Additionally, exposing your dog to various environments, people, and other animals helps prevent behavioral issues and promotes confidence and adaptability. Consistent care, patience, and love are key ingredients for a fulfilling and rewarding relationship with your dog.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Sensitivity levels in dogs vary widely among breeds and individuals. This trait can be determined by how a dog responds to their environment. While some dogs remain unfazed by stern reprimands or surrounding stimuli, others are more sensitive. Even the slightest disapproving glance or the sound of a passing car can affect a sensitive dog. Dogs with a low sensitivity level, also known as “easygoing,” “tolerant,” “resilient,” or “thick-skinned,” are better equipped to handle a bustling household, assertive owners, and unpredictable routines. If you have young children, frequently host social gatherings, engage in noisy activities like playing in a band, or live a busy, unpredictable life, a low sensitivity level dog may be the ideal choice for you.


Highly sensitive dogs are wired differently, with research indicating that their brains process sensory input more deeply. Evolutionarily speaking, scientists theorize high sensitivity levels could aid in survival by functioning as an early warning system, alerting the pack imminent danger. Sensitivity in dogs also includes how they interact with humans and other animals. Some dogs are naturally more sensitive, quickly picking up on subtle cues and changes in their surroundings. Others are more resilient and are able to brush off minor disturbances. Factors such as genetics, early socialization, and life experiences can all contribute to a dog’s sensitivity levels. Highly sensitive dogs may react strongly to loud noises, sudden movements, or changes in routine, while less sensitive dogs may remain calm and composed in similar situations. Being “highly-sensitive” doesn’t always only mean “highly anxious”. Highly-sensitive dogs may also be more empathetic, more affectionate, or serve as better guardians.









Helping highly sensitive dogs involves creating a calm environment, establishing predictable routines, and using positive reinforcement training techniques. Gradually expose them to new experiences while providing mental stimulation and regular exercise to reduce anxiety and boredom. Monitor their diet and health, offering emotional support and reassurance to help them feel secure and valued.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds bond very closely with their family and are more prone to worry or even panic when left alone by their owner. An anxious dog can be very destructive–barking, whining, chewing, and otherwise causing mayhem. These breeds do best when a family member is home during the day or if you can take the dog to work. On the other hand, some breeds are instinctually more independent and easily tolerates being alone.


It’s essential to remember that individual dogs’ tolerance for being alone can vary greatly, depending on factors such as age, temperament, and training. Providing appropriate mental stimulation, toys, and a comfortable environment can help alleviate any potential distress when leaving these breeds alone.









When leaving your dog home alone, it’s essential to create a calm and comfortable environment for them. Even if your dog tolerates being alone, always make sure they have access to their favorite toys, bedding, and water. Consider leaving on soothing background noise, such as calming music or a white noise machine, to help drown out any outside sounds and provide a sense of security.


Before leaving, give your pup an energetic play session or walk to tire them out and alleviate any pent-up energy. Avoid making a big fuss when you leave or return to prevent reinforcing separation anxiety. Additionally, consider providing a special treat or puzzle toy to keep your dog occupied while you’re away, helping to distract them and make their alone time more enjoyable. You may also want to gradually increase the duration of your absences over time.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Several dog breeds are naturally equipped to tolerate cold weather and climates, thanks to their thick coats, sturdy builds, and unique adaptations. Some breeds from snowy climates and mountainous regions may immediately come to mind, like the Siberian Husky, Alaskan Malamute, and Bernese Mountain Dog. Renowned for their cold tolerance and ability to excel in snowy environments, these cold-weather breeds not only tolerate freezing temperatures but may be happiest in the chill. Thanks to dense double coats that provide excellent insulation against the cold, they have no trouble adapting when the temperatures drop.


Additionally, these dogs may have a higher body fat percentage have a built-in layer of insulation that helps retain body heat in cold weather. Physical attributes also play a role in cold tolerance, enabling dogs to navigate snowy or icy terrain with ease. Certain breeds may have specialized adaptations, such as furry feet for traction on slippery surfaces or water-resistant coats for protection against moisture and wind chill. Moreover, a dog’s natural instincts, such as seeking shelter or burrowing in the snow for warmth, can further enhance their ability to tolerate cold weather.










Click here for more information on this characteristic

Unlike cold-weather breeds and brachycephalic dogs, certain dog breeds are well-adapted to warmer climate and tolerate hot weather with relative ease. Breeds such as the Chihuahua, Dalmatian, and Basenji have short coats and lean body structures that facilitate heat dissipation, allowing them to stay comfortable in warmer weather. Their minimal fur reduces the risk of overheating, and their efficient panting mechanisms help regulate their body temperature effectively. These breeds often enjoy basking in the sun and participating in outdoor activities even during hot days, although owners should still ensure they have access to shade and water to prevent dehydration.


Moreover, some breeds have evolved in regions with hot climates, equipping them with natural adaptations to thrive in warm weather conditions. These breeds have developed unique features such as hairless or short coats, as well as physiological traits that aid in heat tolerance. Their ability to cope with high temperatures makes them suitable companions for owners living in warm climates, although proper care and attention to hydration and sun protection are still essential to ensure their well-being during hot weather.









Even if your dog tolerates hot weather, it’s still important to prioritize safety. You can check out guidelines on assessing if the weather is too hot for your dog. Ensure your dog always has access to fresh water, provide shaded areas in your yard or outdoor space, and schedule outdoor activities during cooler times of the day to prevent overheating. Never leave your dog in a parked car, monitor for signs of heat exhaustion, and protect their paws from hot pavement. Consider using pet-safe sunscreen on exposed skin areas and seek veterinary assistance if symptoms persist.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

When it comes to unconditional love and unwavering loyalty, few animals can rival the affectionate nature of dogs. These remarkable creatures have earned their reputation as man’s best friend, and it’s no wonder! Many breeds are particularly renowned for their love and devotion to their families. With their warm hearts and wagging tails, affectionate family dogs enrich the lives of their owners in countless ways.


While we like to think that all dogs are creatures of love, some breeds may be more outwardly affectionate than others. Some of this is due to temperament, breed group, and purpose. For example, dogs first bred for working or guarding independently of their human companions may show less affection than dogs specifically bred to be companion animals. Of course, this is no indication of the bond between a human and pup, but rather related to temperament and breed origin.


Affection may be demonstrated through a myriad of heartwarming behaviors. This may including tail-wagging greetings, cuddles on the couch, and an ever-present eagerness to be by their family’s side. This devotion extends to both adults and children, making dogs wonderful additions to family households. The warmth of a dog’s affection not only provides emotional support but also creates an environment of joy and connection within the family, fostering a sense of togetherness.




The affectionate nature of family dogs extends beyond play and cuddles. Dogs have a remarkable ability to sense their owner’s emotions, offering comfort and support during difficult times. Whether it’s a wagging tail after a long day at work or a sympathetic nuzzle during moments of sadness, they prove time and again that they are attuned to their family’s needs.


It is important to note that not all dogs of the same breed will be equally affectionate. Some dogs may be more independent or aloof, while others may be more clingy or demanding of attention. The best way to find out how affectionate a dog is is to meet them in person and interact with them.


See Dogs Less Affectionate with Family

Click here for more information on this characteristic

If you’re looking for a pup to join your household, you may first want to consider the most kid-friendly dog breeds. A gentle nature, patience, and the sturdiness to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs children can dish out can be some of the most kid-friendly dog-defining traits. Of course, a pup with a blasé attitude toward running and screaming children would be a bonus.


At first glance, you may be surprised by the most kid-friendly dogs. Fierce-looking Boxers are considered good with children, as are American Staffordshire Terriers, an affectionate Pit Bull breed. Small, delicate, and potentially snappy dogs such as Chihuahuas aren’t always so family-friendly.


It’s important to note all dogs are individuals. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual dog will behave. Dogs from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences. Additionally, training plays a big role in how dogs will get along with kids. No matter what the breed or breed type, all dogs have strong jaws,  pointy teeth, and may bite under stressful circumstances or mishandling. Young children and dogs of any breed should always be supervised by an adult and never left alone without supervision.






Determining if a dog is kid-friendly involves assessing various aspects of their temperament, behavior, and breed characteristics. A kid-friendly dog should display a gentle and calm demeanor, showing an ability to handle the unpredictable behaviors and noises associated with children. Additionally, behavioral signals like wagging tails and a relaxed body language often indicates a positive interaction with kids.


Breed tendencies also play a role in gauging kid-friendliness. Some breeds are inherently more predisposed to be good with children. It’s essential to consider the dog’s personality, socialization history, and any signs of anxiety or discomfort. A well-socialized dog that has positive experiences with children is more likely to be kid-friendly, regardless of their breed. Conducting meet-and-greet sessions under controlled circumstances and observing the dog’s reactions to children’s actions can provide valuable insights into their suitability for family life.


See Dogs Who Are Not Kid Friendly

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Friendliness toward dogs and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some dogs may intimidate other dogs, even if they’re love-bugs with people; others are naturally more dog friend and would rather play than fight. It’s important to note that breed isn’t the only factor when it comes to how dog-friendly your pup will be. Sure, some dogs breeds first bred for working independently may not immediately gravitate towards other dogs, but early socialization plays a lot more into how dogs will interact than their origin.  Dogs who lived with their littermates and mother until at least six to eight weeks of age or who spent lots of time playing with other dogs during puppyhood are more likely to have good canine social skills.


Still, some dog-friendly breeds are more pack-oriented and naturally thrive with other dogs. Dogs with this trait typically exhibit an innate ability to get along well with other pups. Dogs with this trait may be more eager to greet new dogs, display more social behavior at places like dog parks, or more confidently allow intimate sniffs from their canine acquaintances. This quality extends beyond mere tolerance and often manifests as a genuine enjoyment of the company of fellow canines, making these dogs ideal companions for those looking to build a multi-dog household. Additionally, they’ll pair well with pet parents hoping to take their pooch on social adventures, such as going to dog park or hanging out on dog-friendly patios.






While some dog breeds are more naturally inclined to make friends with other dogs, you may choose a puppy or adult dog that needs a little help. It’s may be common knowledge that there is a small window during a puppy’s early development when they are the most adaptable in terms of how they’ll interact with other dogs. You may, however, bring home an adult dog or a rescue and not get the opportunity. Not to fear! There are still many ways to help your pooch become dog-friendly.


Socialization is always the best way to ensure your dog becomes their most friendly self. You can help by exposing your pooch to as many sights, sounds, and environments as possible. Set up doggy playdates, enroll in dog training classes, or visit the dog park. Of course, be sure to do your research on dog training methods to ensure your dog will listen to you in social settings. Confidence is key!




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Stranger-friendly dogs will greet guests with wagging tails and nuzzles; others are shy, indifferent, or even reserved. However, no matter what the breed, a dog who was socialized and exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a puppy will respond better to strangers as an adult. Remember that even friendly dogs should stay on a good, strong leash in public.


However, it’s worth noting that certain breeds might initially appear more reserved or aloof when encountering new people. Some individuals appreciate this quality, as not everyone seeks a highly sociable canine companion. There is a preference for the calm and composed personalities exhibited by specific breeds. It’s essential to recognize that not all breeds necessarily need to be inherently friendly with strangers; however, it is crucial that your pup is not aggressive or reactive in such situations.






While some dog breeds are more naturally inclined to make friends with strangers, you may choose a puppy or adult dog that needs a little help. It’s may be common knowledge that there is a small window during a puppy’s early development when they are the most adaptable in terms of how they’ll interact with humans. You may, however, bring home an adult dog or a rescue and not get the opportunity. Not to fear! There are still many ways to help your pooch become stranger-friendly.


Socialization is always the best way to ensure your dog becomes their most friendly self. You can help by exposing your pooch to as many sights, sounds, and environments as possible. Set up doggy playdates, enroll in dog training classes, or visit the dog park. Of course, be sure to do your research on dog training methods to ensure your dog will listen to you in social settings. Confidence is key!




Click here for more information on this characteristic

When considering adding a pup into your home, you may want to consider the amount of shedding your furry companion will experience. Regardless of the dog breed, you will want to be prepared for at least some amount of pet hair on your clothing and around your house. Of course, this amount can vary greatly as shedding tendencies differ significantly among breeds. Some dogs shed continuously, especially dog breeds with heavy double-coats or long fur. Others undergo seasonal “blowouts” and some hardly shed at all.


Having a set of grooming tools at your disposal is essential for tending to your dog’s coat. Deshedding tools are excellent for eliminating excess hair that can become trapped in your dog’s fur. There are also brushes designed to gently remove dead hair without causing discomfort to your dog’s skin. Grooming gloves and bathing brushes can aid in loosening dead hair during shampooing, making it easier to brush away. Clippers and a detangling spray effectively tackle matted fur. Additionally, home tools for managing pet hair on fabric and furniture can make a big difference. Pet tape rollers, fur brooms, and specialized vacuums can eliminate pet hair from carpet, clothing, and even furniture.


If you’re someone who values a spotless environment, you might want to opt for a low-shedding breed. Otherwise, equip yourself with the right tools to fight the fur. Concerns about shedding shouldn’t prevent you from relishing your time at home with your dog. Establishing a consistent grooming regimen can significantly minimize the presence of loose hair in your living space and on your clothing. For additional guidance on managing dog shedding, explore our recommendations for addressing excessive shedding and designing your home with your pet (and their shedding tendencies) in mind.


Related:


How to Effectively Deal with Dog Shedding


4 Best Dog Brushes

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Often referred to as “heavy droolers,” some slobbery dog breeds are known for their drooling potential. This trait is more prevalent in certain breeds with loose, jowly skin. A few breeds that may come to mind when thinking about dog drool are Saint Bernards, Bloodhounds, and Mastiffs. Drooling is a natural behavior influenced by factors like genetics, breed characteristics, and individual anatomy. Even among breeds with a higher drooling potential, some dogs may drool very little while others may drool a lot.


While some dogs may only drool more during specific activities like eating or in anticipation of food, others may be consistent heavy droolers due to their inherent physiological makeup. Living with a dog that drools requires a degree of acceptance and proactive management. Pet owners of drooling breeds often keep absorbent towels or bandanas on hand to wipe away excess saliva. This may be particularly necessary after meals or playtime. Regular dental care can also contribute to reduce excessive drooling by addressing potential oral health issues. Despite the occasional mess, many pet owners of drooling dogs appreciate their unique charm.


Drool-prone dogs may drape ropes of slobber on your arm and leave big, wet spots on your clothes when they come over to say hello. If you’ve got a laid-back attitude toward slobber, fine; but if you’re not a fan of the extra slime, you may want to choose a dog who rates low in the drool department.






Owners with slobbery dog breeds should establish a baseline for their dog’s normal drooling levels. There may be instances where excessive drooling indicates an underlying issue rather than typical breed behavior. Excessive drooling in dogs can serve as an indicator of potential underlying issues. Various factors, such as stress, high temperatures, dental problems, allergic reactions, or nausea, may contribute to increased drooling. If your dog usually isn’t very slobbery or if additional concerning symptoms accompany sudden and pronounced drooling, it is advisable to consult with a veterinarian. Keeping track of what is typical for your dog allows you to quickly identify deviations from the norm and address potential health concerns or discomfort.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds are brush-and-go dogs; others require regular bathing, clipping, and other grooming just to stay clean and healthy. Easy-to-groom dogs are a smart choice for pet owners looking for a low-maintenance companion. Breeds with short coats or those that shed minimally often fall into the category of easy-to-groom dogs. Of course there are exceptions to this statement. For example, allergy-friendly, low-shedding Poodles or Poodle Mixes like the Labradoodle or Bernedoodle require frequent grooming. Low-maintenance dog breeds require less frequent brushing sessions. These pups may be more convenient for individuals with busy schedules or those looking for a hassle-free pet care routine.


Owners of low-maintenance dogs also enjoy the benefit of reduced grooming-related expenses. Because these breeds typically don’t require professional services, these low-maintenance breeds end up being more budget-friendly. Common examples of easy-to-groom breeds include Beagles, Labrador Retrievers, and Dachshunds. While regular grooming remains essential for all dogs, the easy-to-groom breeds offer a practical option for pet parents seeking a dog without the added demands of intricate care routines. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a dog who needs a lot of grooming. Alternatively, you may want to consider the budget required to pay someone else to do it.






Beyond the usual brushing, clipping, and trimming needs, some breeds require additional grooming for their unique needs. Breeds such as Pugs and Shar-Peis have loose skin and wrinkles that require extra vigilance during bathing.


First, to prevent grime and even bacteria from becoming a problem, clean between the folds of their skin with damp cotton and then dry well. Keeping these areas dry is also important after a bath or a walk in the rain. Long, droopy-eared pups like the Basset Hound or Cocker Spaniel must be checked weekly for buildups of wax and dirt. A cotton wad with a little water or mineral oil can help keep the ears clean and dry. Drops specifically designed to clean and dry the canal should also be applied for these ear infection-prone dogs. Hair that grows around the canal entrance should be kept trimmed. You can check with a professional groomer or veterinarian for instructions on how to properly and safely do this. Special tools may be available for this unique task.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

While most dogs experience good general health, some breeds may be prone to specific health issues. Conditions like hip dysplasia, cancer, or heart conditions can result from poor breeding practices or genetic dispositions. However, it’s important to note that not every dog of a particular breed will necessarily develop these diseases. Rather, they only face an elevated risk compared to other breeds.


When considering adding a dog or puppy to your home, it’s advisable to research the prevalent genetic illnesses associated with the breed you’re interested in adopting. Additionally, it can be beneficial to inquire whether your chosen shelter or rescue organization possesses information regarding the physical health of the potential pup’s parents and other relatives. This knowledge can aid in understanding potential health risks and ensuring the best possible start for your new furry family member.









The CHIC (Canine Health Information Center), a program created by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA), provides a centralized database for canine health information, particularly focusing on orthopedic and genetic conditions. Despite robust general health, they recommend several health screenings for breeds due to potential predispositions to certain conditions. After screening, the CHIC assigns a number to a dog’s test results. It doesn’t indicate normal results, just that all necessary tests were done and results made available. A CHIC report accompanies the number, detailing the tests, the dog’s age during testing, and the results.


The CHIC program adjusts its requirements based on evolving breed health concerns. Existing CHIC numbers aren’t affected if requirements change. This number is also displayed on AKC documents, including Certified Pedigrees, Registration Applications, and Registration Certificates. This record signifies to potential puppy parents and breed enthusiasts that recommended tests have been completed. Although the CHIC database only includes purebred dogs, you can look up a hybrid breed’s parent breeds for potential health considerations.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Certain dog breeds have a predisposition towards hearty appetites. As a result, they may also be prone to weight gain, similar to humans. Just like in people, obesity in dogs can lead to various health issues. If you opt for a breed prone to packing on pounds, it’s essential to implement strategies to manage their weight effectively. This includes limiting treats, ensuring they receive sufficient exercise, and regulating their daily food intake by serving measured meals instead of leaving food accessible all day.


Consulting with your veterinarian about your dog’s diet is crucial. They can provide valuable insights and recommendations tailored to your pet’s specific needs to help maintain a healthy weight. Weight gain not only poses direct health risks but can also exacerbate existing conditions such as arthritis, leading to further complications if left unchecked. Thus, proactive management of your dog’s weight is integral to their overall well-being and longevity.






To help your dog manage weight gain, start by consulting with your veterinarian to develop a safe and effective weight loss plan tailored to your pet’s individual needs. This may involve adjusting their diet to a lower calorie option or a specialized weight management formula. It may also include measuring their food portions to control calorie intake, and reducing the frequency of treats. Additionally, increasing their physical activity through regular exercise is essential for burning calories and promoting weight loss.


Identifying whether your dog is overweight involves assessing their body condition and observing for signs of excess weight. You can perform a simple visual and tactile evaluation by feeling their ribs and observing their waistline. In a healthy weight dog, you should be able to feel their ribs easily with a slight covering of fat. They should have a noticeable waist when viewed from above. If your dog is overweight, you may observe visible signs such as a lack of a defined waist, a rounded or bulging abdomen, difficulty moving or breathing, or reduced energy levels.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Get ready to meet the giants of the doggy world! Large dog breeds aren’t just big balls of fluff, they’re like loving, oversized teddy bears on a mission to steal your heart. Need some convincing? Let’s dive into the awesome benefits of owning one!


First things first, these pooches are a living security system! With their impressive size and thunderous barks, they’ll have any would-be intruder running for the hills. Talk about peace of mind! Plus, who needs an alarm when you’ve got a furry giant protecting your castle?


But that’s not all. Large dog breeds are all about loyalty and devotion. They’ll stick by your side through thick and thin, becoming your most dedicated bestie. Their love knows no bounds! When you have a giant fluffball showing you unconditional love, you’ll feel like the luckiest human on the planet.


Now, let’s talk about their talents. These big fellas are the ultimate working partners. With brains and brawn, they’re up for any challenge. From search and rescue missions to lending a helping paw to those in need, these dogs are superheroes in fur coats. They’ll make you proud every step of the way!


Don’t let their size fool you—these gentle giants have hearts as big as their paws. They’re incredible with kids and other pets, spreading their love like confetti. Their patience and kindness make them perfect family pets, ensuring harmony in your household.


Oh, and get ready to break a sweat! These dogs are fitness enthusiasts, and they’ll keep you on your toes. Daily walks, jogs, and play sessions will not only keep them happy and healthy but will also give you a reason to ditch the couch and join in on the fun. It’s a win-win situation!


So, if you’re ready for a dose of big love, go ahead and consider a large dog breed. They’re the best wing-dog you could ever ask for, ready to make your life a thousand times more exciting, loving, and downright awesome! Get ready for the big adventure of a lifetime!






Click here for more information on this characteristic

Easy-to-train dogs have an innate ability to quickly understand the relationships between prompts, actions, and rewards. For example, when told to “sit,” easy-to-train dogs quickly associate the command with the action of sitting, knowing that compliance results in a positive outcome, such as receiving a treat. This ability to learn quickly makes training easier and more enjoyable for both the dog and the owner. On the contrary, some dogs may need more time, patience, and consistent repetition to form these associations, emphasizing the importance of tailoring training methods to individual learning styles.


It’s crucial to keep in mind that dogs that present challenges aren’t necessarily less intelligent; rather, they may exhibit a more independent nature shaped by their breeding history. Breeds like Livestock Guardian Dogs, for instance, developed an inherent independence due to their historical role in guarding flocks without constant human supervision. This independent spirit, while a unique and valuable trait, can pose challenges when it comes to imparting basic commands. Having been bred to think and act autonomously, they may require a bit more patience and understanding from their owners.






Training is essential to keep your dog safe in various situations, whether it’s staying within the yard or maintaining control during emergencies. The mental exercise from training helps keep your dog sharp, burn off excess energy, and minimize undesirable behaviors. Consistency and patience are key; reward your dog when they get it right. As the adage says, you can always teach an old dog new tricks.


No matter what you’re trying to teach your dog, from housetraining to “heel,” there are a few basic guidelines that can help make the process easier. Be sure to check out our feature on several of the most popular dog training methods. We also have articles on the basics of leash training for your pups. If you’ve got the basics covered and are looking for a few extra tricks, check out 10 Fun, Impressive Tricks You Can Teach Any Dog.


Related:


Dogs Who Are Challenging To Train

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs exhibit a remarkable spectrum of intelligence, encompassing a wide array of cognitive abilities and problem-solving skills. From the astute problem-solving abilities of breeds like Border Collies to the keen observational skills of German Shepherds, canine intelligence manifests in various forms. Some dogs excel in tasks requiring social intelligence, such as understanding human emotions and cues. Other may showcase exceptional learning capacity in their ability to master complex commands and tasks. Additionally, certain breeds demonstrate remarkable memory retention and the ability to adapt to new situations swiftly. However, it’s essential to recognize that intelligence in dogs is diverse and multifaceted. Intelligence is influenced not only by genetics, but also by individual experiences and environmental factors.


Dogs bred for tasks requiring decision-making, intelligence, and focus, such as herding livestock, require mental stimulation akin to how dogs bred for endurance need physical exercise. Lacking such mental engagement, they may resort to activities like digging or chewing to occupy themselves. It’s worth noting that while intelligence is valued, it doesn’t always correlate with trainability, especially in breeds bred for independent thinking. Hello, Livestock Guardians! Incorporating obedience training, interactive toys, and engaging activities like dog sports or careers such as agility and search and rescue can provide the mental challenge these dogs crave.









Keeping your dog mentally stimulated is crucial for their well-being. One way to do this is through interactive play and toys. Treat-dispensing toys or puzzles that require problem-solving can keep your dog entertained and mentally engaged. Regularly rotating toys can also prevent boredom. Additionally, incorporating training sessions into your daily routine provides mental stimulation while strengthening your bond with your dog. Teaching new tricks or practicing obedience commands challenges their mind and keeps them sharp.


Another way to stimulate your dog mentally is through enrichment activities. This includes activities that engage their senses, such as hide-and-seek games using treats or scent trails. Taking your dog on different walking routes or exploring new environments introduces novelty and mental stimulation. Additionally, providing opportunities for social interaction with other dogs through playdates or visits to dog parks can stimulate their minds through socialization. Regularly changing up their environment and offering new experiences helps prevent monotony and keeps your dog mentally sharp and happy.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Mouthiness, a tendency to nip, chew, and playfully bite, is a common behavior in puppies across many dog breeds. For some breeds, the tendency persists into adulthood, particularly with sporting and herding breeds. Because of this inherent instinct in many breeds, mouthy dogs are more inclined to use their mouths to hold or “herd” their human family members. Of course, this isn’t always appreciated! They require training to learn that chewing on toys is acceptable, but not on people. Breeds with a higher potential for mouthiness often greatly enjoy interactive games like fetch, as well as chewing on toys stuffed with kibble and treats.




Puppy mouthing and nipping may seem cute initially, but it can develop into an unwanted habit as the dog matures, especially in breeds with a potential for mouthiness. It’s important to understand that in the early stages of a puppy’s development, biting and mouthing is one of the ways they begin to explore and understand their environment. These aren’t true bites, but rather the puppy using their mouth to sense and interact with its surroundings. Even so, it’s a good idea to teach your dog commands like “drop it” or “let go” from a young age. This will help curb the mouthing behavior before it becomes an entrenched problem in adulthood.






The best way to train your dog out of mouthiness is to teach them how to play with a gentle mouth. Whenever your dog puts their mouth on your skin, make a high-pitched yelp or squeal. This teaches them that biting hurts. As they learn that their bite causes discomfort, they’ll start to use less pressure. It’s crucial to help your dog understand that they may accidentally apply too much force, resulting in a painful bite. You’ll need to consistently use this technique until your dog only applies the lightest pressure, using just their gums, when engaging in playful mouthing behaviors.


The key is to show your dog that hard bites are unacceptable, so they learn to play more gently with a soft mouth. The yelping response reinforces this lesson over time, allowing your dog to develop more control and gentleness when playing with their mouth.CopyRetry

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs with a high prey drive have an instinctive desire to stalk, capture, and prey upon potential food sources. Dogs who were bred to hunt, such as Terriers, have an inborn desire to chase — and sometimes kill — other animals. Anything whizzing by — such as cats, squirrels, and perhaps even cars — can trigger that instinct.




Off-leash adventures are too great a temptation for pups who will wander and hunt. Dogs who like to chase need to be leashed. And, even on a leash, you may experience your dog pulling on the leash to reach rodents or birds in their sight. Otherwise, these pups should be kept in a fenced area when outdoors. If your pup has a high prey drive, you’ll need a high, secure fence in your yard.


These breeds generally aren’t a good fit for homes with smaller pets that can look like prey, such as cats, hamsters, or small dogs. Breeds that were originally used for bird hunting, on the other hand, generally won’t chase, but you’ll probably have a hard time getting their attention when there are birds flying by.




Observing your dog’s prey drive, which is instinctual and biologically-rooted, is not the same as observing aggression. Much aggression is born of fear and anxiety, especially in the case of dog aggression toward humans.


The tendency to wander, even into oncoming traffic, can produce diasterious results for pups with predatory instincts. It can also lead to pups being bitten by snakes or attacked by other wild animals they may pursue while on the hunt.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds sound off more often than others. When choosing a breed, think about how often the dog vocalizes. Learn more about breeds with a tendency to bark or howl.


If you’re considering a hound, would you find their trademark howls musical or maddening? If you’re considering a watchdog, will a city full of suspicious “strangers” put your pup on permanent alert? Will the local wildlife literally drive your dog wild? Do you live in housing with noise restrictions? Do you have neighbors nearby who may not be thrilled about the booming barks? Then you may wish to choose a quieter dog.









Training a dog with a tendency to bark or howl excessively requires patience, consistency, and positive reinforcement techniques. Begin by identifying the triggers that prompt your dog to bark, whether it’s the doorbell, passing cars, or other animals. Once you understand the underlying causes, work on desensitizing your dog to these stimuli through gradual exposure and counterconditioning. For example, if your dog barks at the doorbell, practice ringing the bell repeatedly at a low volume while rewarding calm behavior with treats or praise. Gradually increase the intensity of the stimulus while continuing to reward quiet responses, reinforcing the idea that remaining quiet brings positive rewards.


In addition to desensitization exercises, teach your dog an alternative behavior to replace barking, such as “quiet” or “speak.” Use these commands in training sessions to encourage your dog to bark on cue and then stop when prompted. Consistency is crucial, so ensure everyone in the household is on board with the training plan and reinforces the desired behavior consistently. Finally, provide mental and physical stimulation through regular exercise and interactive toys to help alleviate boredom and reduce the likelihood of excessive barking.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs possess a natural inclination for exploration and adventure, often displaying wanderlust tendencies that stem from their ancestral instincts. With their keen sense of smell and curiosity, dogs are drawn to new scents, sights, and experiences. As a result, they may be inherently prone to wander off if given the opportunity. This wanderlust potential varies across breeds, with some exhibiting stronger instincts for exploration than others. Breeds such as the Siberian Husky, Beagle, and Australian Shepherd are known for their independent spirits and high energy levels. They may be more likely to wander off in search of excitement or stimulation. However, even breeds typically considered more docile may still succumb to wanderlust if not properly trained or supervised.






To mitigate the risk of dogs wandering away, responsible pet ownership involves implementing preventative measures and training techniques. Providing adequate physical and mental stimulation through regular exercise, interactive play, and enrichment activities can help satisfy a dog’s innate desire for exploration and reduce the likelihood of wandering behavior. Having a general awareness of the “escape artist” tendencies in certain breeds can help you in ensuring the safety of your pup. Additionally, training commands such as recall and leash manners are essential for establishing boundaries and ensuring that dogs remain under control when outdoors. Investing in secure fencing for outdoor spaces and using identification tags or microchips can also provide added security and peace of mind in case of accidental escapes.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Energetic dogs, bred for specific tasks such as retrieving for hunters or herding livestock, are always ready for action and have enough stamina to work a full day. Additionally, active dogs with high energy levels necessitate a significant amount of physical and mental activity. These dogs enjoy jumping, playing, and discovering new sights and smells. Owners of high-energy breeds must provide outlets for their dogs’ physical and mental needs to keep them healthy and happy.


Low-energy dogs, on the other hand, are the canine equivalent of a couch potato, content to spend their days sleeping. When choosing a dog breed, you should consider your activity level and the energy level of your potential companion. Determine whether you would find certain dogs’ lively and energetic personalities invigorating or potentially overwhelming. Understanding a breed’s energy requirements is critical for ensuring a harmonious match between the dog’s needs and the owner’s preferences, resulting in a satisfying and balanced companionship.






Exercise requirements for high-energy dogs can vary even within the same breed. It’s also important to note that age doesn’t exempt senior dogs from exercise; they simply require shorter walks compared to their younger years. For energetic dogs, a leashed stroll around the block won’t be enough. The goal is to ensure that your dog is sufficiently tired and content by the time the exercise session concludes.


To meet the exercise needs of active breeds, it’s recommended to provide at least 30 minutes of vigorous aerobic exercise most days. This applies not only to larger breeds but also to smaller ones. Some toy breeds are prone to obesity and may need more activity than one might assume. Safety is paramount, so during extreme weather conditions, it’s advisable to stay indoors and engage your dog’s mind through activities like trick training, interactive play with toys, or running up and down stairs together. A well-rounded exercise routine involves activities that challenge both mental and physical muscles, such as exploring new hiking trails. Check out our guide on the Top 10 Ways to Exercise With Your Dog.








Click here for more information on this characteristic

A dog with high intensity exudes boundless energy and enthusiasm in everything they do, whether it’s pulling on the leash, tackling obstacles with gusto, or devouring meals with voracious appetite. While their exuberance can be endearing, it also necessitates consistent training to instill good manners. However, not everyone will appreciate their high energy levels. Some high intensity dogs may not pair well to households with young children or individuals who are elderly or frail, as their exuberance could inadvertently pose a risk.


In contrast, a low-intensity dog approaches life with a more relaxed and subdued demeanor. These dogs typically exhibit a calmer disposition, preferring leisurely strolls and gentle interactions over exuberant displays of energy. Their tranquil nature often makes them ideal companions for those seeking a more laid-back canine companion. This may be particularly true in homes where a quieter atmosphere is preferred.









Training and exercise are crucial for dogs with high-intensity personalities to manage their energy effectively. Consistent training using positive reinforcement techniques helps instill good manners and impulse control. Engaging them in mentally stimulating activities, alongside regular physical exercise like agility or fetch, is essential to prevent boredom-driven behaviors and promote overall well-being. Variety in their exercise routine, such as exploring new trails or participating in dog sports, ensures both physical and mental stimulation for a balanced and fulfilling life.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Different dog breeds have varying exercise needs, and understanding these requirements is crucial for ensuring a happy and healthy canine companion. Some breeds are content with a leisurely evening stroll around the block, while others demand daily, vigorous exercise routines, particularly those originally bred for physically demanding tasks like herding or hunting. Without sufficient physical activity, these high-energy breeds may face issues such as weight gain and express their pent-up energy in undesirable behaviors like excessive barking, chewing, and digging.


We often think of exercise only as a health issue, but it has significant day-to-day effects on a dog’s behavior as well. Dogs — particularly puppies and young dogs — have a lot of energy, and if they don’t get the chance to burn it off, destructive behavior is often the result. If you’re annoyed at your dog’s digging, have headaches from barking, and need to replace pillows shredded into expensive fluff, your dog is probably not getting enough exercise.






Generally speaking, a leashed walk around the block isn’t going to cut it. Most dogs need 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity a day. Your canine pal needs enough that they’re slowed down by the time you stop.


Some general guidelines for getting your dog enough exercise:















Click here for more information on this characteristic

Understanding your dog’s temperament is crucial when considering their exercise and play needs. Some dogs have a high potential for playfulness, constantly seeking out games and activities to engage in. These playful pups can be endearing, but it’s essential to consider how much time and energy you have to dedicate to play each day. Think about whether you’re prepared for multiple rounds of fetch or tag and if you have other family members, kids, or even other dogs who can serve as playmates for your furry friend.


On the other hand, some dogs are more serious by nature. While they may still enjoy playtime, it might not be as frequent or vigorous as with their more playful counterparts. Understanding your dog’s individual temperament helps you tailor their exercise routine to suit their needs and preferences. It’s about finding the right balance between providing enough mental and physical stimulation without overwhelming them or neglecting their need for relaxation and downtime.









Playing with our pups is good for us. Seriously, science says so! To make the most of spending time with breeds with a high potential for playfulness, consider incorporating a variety of interactive games and toys to keep them mentally stimulated and physically active. Engage in activities such as fetch, tug-of-war, or hide-and-seek, which tap into their natural instincts and provide both mental and physical exercise. Use positive reinforcement, such as treats and praise, to encourage good behavior and reinforce the bond between you. Remember to be patient and flexible, allowing your dog to lead the play session and adapt to their preferences. Finally, ensure a safe environment by removing any potential hazards and supervising closely, especially when introducing new toys or activities.

Click here for more information on this characteristic
The Tibetan Mastiff is a majestic, protective breed known for its noble appearance and lovely coat. They are loving, loyal, and great with family, but they require experienced owners. These independent dogs won’t always obey commands, and they aren’t suited for obedience or agility competitions. They tend to be quiet indoors but can bark if left outside at night. Proper fencing is a must, as they can climb fences. They may not be the best fit for families with young children or a bustling social life, as they can be territorial.
Socialization is vital to their well-being, and they should meet various people and go to different places. While they can be a wonderful breed in the right setting, owning a Tibetan Mastiff is an adventure that requires careful consideration and preparation.
Impressive Size: Tibetan Mastiffs are imposing dogs, with males weighing between 90 to 160 pounds and females slightly smaller. Their size alone can be a deterrent to potential threats, making them excellent protectors for homes and livestock.
Loyal Guardians: These dogs possess an innate protective instinct. They are known for their loyalty to their family and can be fiercely protective when it comes to their loved ones.
Low Shedding: Tibetan Mastiffs typically have a double coat that sheds minimally throughout most of the year. While they undergo a seasonal shedding period, their grooming needs are generally manageable.
Quiet Watchdogs: They are vigilant and have a tendency to bark to alert their owners, especially at night. However, they tend to be quieter during the day, which can be an advantage in residential settings.
Early Socialization: Early and continuous socialization is crucial for Tibetan Mastiffs to ensure they are well-adjusted around other dogs and people. This socialization helps them differentiate between potential threats and non-threats, a vital skill for a guardian breed.
Exercise and Stimulation: Like many large breeds, Tibetan Mastiffs need both physical and mental stimulation to prevent boredom-related behavior issues. Regular exercise and challenging activities are essential to keep them content.
The Tibetan Mastiff originated, where else, in Tibet. Like so many breeds, he has little documented history from before the late 19th century, but he’s believed to have been around for many centuries. DNA evidence tells us that mastiff-type dogs originated in Tibet some 5,000 years ago, and the Tibetan Mastiff is no doubt a descendant of those dogs. They developed into two types: the Do-Khyi, who lived in villages or traveled with nomadic shepherds and functioned as flock guardians, and the larger Tsang-Khyi, which were often given to lamaseries, where they served as guardians for the Tibetan Buddhist monks, or lamas, who lived there. Little is known of the Tibetan Mastiff before 1800. In 1800, a Captain Samuel Turner mentioned the use of “huge dogs” in his memoir, An account of an Embassy to the Court of the Teshoo Lama in Tibet, but he gave no description of them. In 1847, the first dog from Tibet was imported to England and given to Queen Victoria as a gift from Lord Hardinge, the Viceroy of India. In 1873, England’s Kennel Club was formed and the Tibetan Mastiff was officially entered into the Stud Book as the Tibetan Mastiff, leaving its earlier title as “large dog from Tibet” behind.
In 1874, the Prince of Wales, who later became King Edward VII, imported two more Tibetan Mastiffs to England and they were shown in 1875 at the Alexandra Palace Show. Tibetan Mastiffs continued to be imported occasionally into England and Europe, and the first Tibetan Mastiff breed club was formed in 1931. World War II put an end to breeding, and it wasn’t until 1976 that English breeders began importing the dogs again. The breed had a similar history in the United States. The late 1950s saw two Tibetan Mastiffs given to the President of the United States, but the dogs were taken to a farm and vanished from public scrutiny. It wasn’t until 1970 that several more Tibetan Mastiffs were imported into the United States and they became the foundation dogs of the United States line. The Tibetan Mastiff Club of America was founded in 1974, as was the American Tibetan Mastiff Association. The first show that the Tibetan Mastiffs appeared in was the first National Specialty Match in October 1979. The breed was only recently recognized by the American Kennel Club as a member of the Working Group in January 2007. Today, in Tibet, it’s difficult to find a purebred Tibetan Mastiff, but occasionally one can be found traveling with caravans and traders, and guarding livestock and homes.
A male Tibetan Mastiff stands at least 26 inches tall at the shoulder and weighs in the vicinity of 100 to 160 or more pounds; females are at least 24 inches tall at the shoulder and weigh 75 to 125 or more pounds.
The word “challenging” is frequently applied to this independent, stubborn breed. He’s intelligent and has a strong sense of self, expecting to be treated as an equal, not as a pet. He wants to please his people, but he also has his own agenda and must often be reminded of what he’s been asked to do.
The Tibetan Mastiff is a loyal family guardian who takes his job seriously and is aloof or reserved toward strangers. Early socialization that continues throughout his life will help prevent him from becoming territorially aggressive. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
Tibetan Mastiffs are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they can be subject to certain health conditions. Not all TMs will get any or all of these diseases, but it’s important to be aware of them if you’re considering this breed.
If you’re buying a puppy, find a good breeder who will show you health clearances for both your puppy’s parents. Health clearances prove that a dog’s been tested for and cleared of a particular condition.In Tibetan Mastiffs, you should expect to see health clearances from the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals for hips, elbows, and thyroid. Because some health problems don’t appear until a dog reaches full maturity, health clearances aren’t issued to dogs younger than two years old. Look for a breeder who doesn’t breed her dogs until they’re two or three years old.
The Tibetan Mastiff is a companion dog who should live indoors, with access to a large, securely fenced yard where he can exercise. A small yard or dog run isn’t sufficient for his needs. His heavy coat makes him unsuited to life in a hot, humid climate, although he can tolerate dry heat. During hot weather, he should always have access to shade and fresh water whenever he’s outdoors. The Tibetan Mastiff’s exercise requirements can be satisfied with 20 to 30 minutes of play in the yard or a half-hour walk. He’ll enjoy having another dog to play with, preferably one who comes close to his size. Tibetan Mastiff puppies grow more quickly than smaller breeds, but they aren’t physically mature until they’re more than a year old.
To prevent orthopedic damage, limit exercise to free play in the yard, and avoid long walks until your puppy is a year old. Begin training the day you bring your Tibetan Mastiff puppy home. They are intelligent and learn quickly, but their independent and stubborn nature means that strict and formal obedience training doesn’t bring the best results. Be patient, firm, and consistent to develop the strongest bond with your Tibetan Mastiff. Always look for behaviors you can reward instead of punishing him for infractions. Regular training practice and social interaction will help ensure that you live together happily. A bored or lonely Tibetan Mastiff is more destructive and noisy than you can imagine.
Housetraining comes easily to the Tibetan Mastiff. Crate training assists in this process and prevents your puppy from chewing on things he shouldn’t or otherwise getting into trouble when you aren’t around to supervise. A crate also gives him a safe haven where he can retreat when he’s feeling overwhelmed or tired. A crate should never be used as a punishment. Leash training is also important, especially since your Tibetan Mastiff will eventually weigh up to 160 pounds or more and be able to pull you where he wants to go. Tibetan Mastiffs should never be walked off leash and having good leash manners is essential to both the state of your muscles and your happiness.
Socialization is a must for this breed. Not only can Tibetan Mastiffs be overly dominant toward other dogs, they tend to become overly protective of their home and family. Puppy socialization classes are a great start, but socialization shouldn’t end there. Visit many different dog-friendly stores, parks, and events. Invite different people to your home on multiple occasions so your Tibetan Mastiff learns that others can come onto your property and his territory. With the proper training, consistency, and socialization, your Tibetan Mastiff can be a wonderful family member who guards, protects, and loves you unconditionally.
Recommended daily amount: 4 to 6 or more cups of a high-quality dog food daily, divided into two meals. To avoid gastric dilatation volvulus, also known as bloat, withhold food and water for at least an hour after vigorous exercise. How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don’t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog.
The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you’ll need to shake into your dog’s bowl. Keep your Tibetan Mastiff in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you’re unsure whether he’s overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. You should be able to see a waist. Then place your hands on his back, thumbs along the spine, with the fingers spread downward. You should be able to feel but not see his ribs without having to press hard. If you can’t, he needs less food and more exercise. For more on feeding your Tibetan Mastiff, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Tibetan Mastiff has a double coat with a long, thick, coarse-textured topcoat and a heavy, soft, woolly undercoat. The undercoat is thinner during warmer months. The hair is hard and straight, never curly, wavy, or silky. A heavy mane covers the neck and shoulders, and the tail and britches (the upper thighs) have a heavy coat and feathering. Males generally have more coat than females, including a thicker mane around the neck and shoulders. The coat comes in black, brown, gold, and blue, with or without tan markings above and around the eyes, on the side of the muzzle, on the throat, and on the lower part of the front forelegs, the inside of the rear legs, the breeches and the underside of the tail. Some Tibetan Mastiffs have small white markings on the chest and feet but nowhere else on the body. The undercoat may be lighter shades of the dominant color or gray or tan on black and tan dogs. Tibetan Mastiffs with sable or brindle coats are faulted in the show ring, but their color doesn’t affect their ability to be a companion or guardian.
The Tibetan Mastiff sheds little and may or may not shed seasonally, depending on the climate in which he lives. Brush him one to three times a week with a wire slicker brush to remove dead or loose hair. Be sure to check for tangles or mats in the mane, breeches, and tail, where the coat is heaviest. Bathe as needed. This breed has little odor, so he usually doesn’t require a bath more than once a month. Other grooming needs include dental hygiene and nail care. Brush your Tibetan Mastiff’s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the accompanying bacteria. Daily is better.
Trim his nails once or twice a month, or as needed. If you can hear the nails clicking on the floor, they’re too long. Short nails keep the feet in good condition and don’t get caught in the carpet and tear. If the feet need to be tidied up with trimming, the best time to do it is when you are clipping the nails. Check the ears weekly to make sure there’s no debris, redness, or inflammation. Clean the ears as needed with a cotton ball and a cleanser recommended by your dog’s breeder or your veterinarian. Wipe around the outer edge of the ear canal, and don’t stick the cotton ball any deeper than the first knuckle of your finger.
Begin getting your Tibetan Mastiff used to being brushed and examined when he’s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you’ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he’s an adult.
The Tibetan Mastiff is suitable for families with older children, but he can be too large to safely spend much time around toddlers. He would never mean to hurt them, but he could easily knock them over or step on them. Make it a rule that children are never to run and scream in a Tibetan Mastiff’s presence. The noise and activity can excite him, and he’s simply too big to be allowed to chase children or play roughly with them. He may also feel the need to protect “his” children from other kids, especially if they’re wrestling or otherwise appear to be fighting. Always supervise play so that he knows you’re in charge. Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he’s sleeping or eating or to try to take the dog’s food away. No dog should ever be left unsupervised with a child.
Tibetan Mastiffs get along well with other dogs and cats when they’re raised with them. As adults, they may require more of an adjustment period before they welcome the advent of another dog.
Consider adopting from a rescue group before going to a breeder. Here are a few breed-specific rescue groups.
Finding a reputable dog breeder is one of the most important decisions you will make when bringing a new dog into your life. Reputable breeders are committed to breeding healthy, well-socialized puppies that will make great companions. They will screen their breeding stock for health problems, socialize their puppies from a young age, and provide you with lifetime support.
On the other hand, backyard breeders are more interested in making a profit than in producing healthy, well-adjusted dogs. They may not screen their breeding stock for health problems or socialize their puppies properly. As a result, puppies from backyard breeders are more likely to have health and behavioral issues.
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Once, people used to pet dogs as guards of their livestock and houses. For this purpose, they constantly desired a canine resembling a lion, and the Tibetan Mastiff breed fulfilled their need. Though hundreds of other dog breeds that serve as guards are part of our lives, this particular breed is known to be 58,000 years old, according to Nationwide Pet Insurance.
Are you considering it as your next furry companion? This thorough book explores every aspect of this intriguing breed, including its historical beginnings and distinctive traits. To ensure you have all the information required to make an informed choice, we’ll review every facet of a Tibetan Mastiff’s existence. Come along on this thrilling adventure with us; we assure you you will want to put this article down at the end!
Table of Contents

It is a magnificent guardian breed distinguished by its beautiful coat and royal attitude. The dog demands knowledgeable owners yet is devoted, caring, and excellent with families. These independent dogs are unsuitable for obedience or agility trials and won’t always follow instructions. They may bark when left outside at night, although they are usually calm indoors.
They can climb barriers, making proper fencing essential for anyone considering them as pets. Additionally, their territorial nature may not best fit for households with small children or active social lives. Socialization is crucial for their well-being, requiring visits to different locations and interactions with various people. Given the right environment, they can develop into magnificent breeds.

It is an old breed that originated more than 2,000 years ago in the Himalayan region of Tibet. They were ideal for the rugged landscape because of their formidable size and natural defensive tendencies. Initially raised by nomadic societies, they functioned as guards of cattle and property.
Moreover, these dogs were frequently presented as presents to foreign dignitaries and were revered by Tibetan monks and nobles. Because of their striking look and formidable reputation, they were well-known outside Tibet, first in China and then in the West.
Despite having a lengthy history, they were put in peril when Tibet was experiencing political unrest. However, the devoted breed aficionados worked to save the breed. People love them for their loyalty and respect defenders in families worldwide today.
Now that we know these particular dogs and their history, here comes the time to make them sit before us and observe their appearance. The Tibetan Mastiff breed is beautiful, powerful, and famous for its remarkable appearance.
They also look like kings because of the silky mane around their necks and dense double coat. Their coat comes in various hues, from shades of tan, gold, and white to entirely black, brown, or blue. With powerful limbs demonstrating strength and agility, this breed has a robust physique and stands tall and strong.
They are among the most giant breeds of dogs, with typical weights ranging from 70 to 150 kg. In contrast, the females are much smaller, ranging from 22 to 26 inches. They are, however, between 26 and 28 inches tall. The bushy tail folds over its back, contributing to its imposing appearance and unique profile.

American Kennel Club (AKC) states that guardian dogs protect their family and homes and are cautious around strangers. Although most people may initially notice the Tibetan Mastiff’s bulk, this breed is relatively playful when the situation calls for it and affectionate toward family. Their training might be challenging because of their guardian dog heritage, which makes them dislike receiving orders from their family.
The breed may bark loudly and aggressively during the late hours because of its heightened protective instincts. Keeping your mastiff indoors at night is advisable to prevent upsetting your neighbors. Have a sturdy fence to prevent your dog from going on nighttime or daytime wanderings.
This dog is slightly suspicious of strangers since they still have the guard instinct. Your dog needs to perceive you as the person they can trust, and once they realize this, they will learn to make friends with others and show them the same love and devotion they do for you.
Due to its size and power, owners should not let this dog live in a tiny apartment, while a strong and skilled handler is required. However, they usually don’t yap while kept inside with the family, they bark if left outside for extended periods.
The susceptibility to sickness of Mastiffs can vary, just like any other breed of dog. In general, Tibetan Mastiffs are robust-natured, relatively healthy dogs. However, some health issues are common in these canines, such as Hip dysplasia. It is a condition where the hip joint malformes and causes pain and lameness.
Similar problems can be brought on by elbow dysplasia, which affects the elbow joint. Over time, visual loss may result from progressive retinal atrophy, a degenerative eye condition. Moreover, thyroid issues could arise and impact energy and metabolism. Skin conditions, including dermatitis and allergies, can bring on itching and pain.
Moreover, frequent veterinarian care, exercise, and proper diet are essential to manage these diseases. To ensure these dogs have healthy, active lives, early identification, and management can help reduce symptoms and enhance their quality of life.
Caring for a Tibetan Mastiff breed involves several key aspects to ensure their well-being and happiness:
Mastiffs from Tibet require regular exercise to keep their bodies in good condition and their minds engaged. Try going for regular walks or playdates to avoid boredom and excessive energy building. This breed is active outside, so it is good to give them lots of room to run about and explore.
For large, active breeds, a balanced diet should be provided. You should feed your dog high-quality food with meat as the primary ingredient. Refrain from overeating to prevent obesity, which exacerbates medical disorders such as joint problems. Consult a veterinarian to determine your canine’s best feeding schedule and nutritional requirements.
Because of their dense double coat, Tibetan Mastiffs need to have them trimmed frequently to avoid matting and knots. Thoroughly brush their coat twice weekly and be especially careful during shedding seasons. Bathing them is crucial for maintaining a clean and healthy coat. Furthermore, they should wash their teeth frequently and wear regular nail trims.
To encourage excellent conduct and deter violence against people or other animals, begin training and socializing as early as possible. This breed responds well to prizes and praise. Therefore, positive reinforcement techniques are effective. Encourage their confidence and well-roundedness by exposing them to various situations, people, and animals.
Plan to frequently examine your pet by a veterinarian to catch any problems early. Continue with routine exams for common health issues, avoidance of parasites, and vaccines. Keep an eye out for any changes in your physical or behavioral state, and when necessary, seek expert guidance.

Given their size and requirement for plenty of room to explore, think twice before choosing to pet this breed. Regular exercise and mental stimulation are necessary for them. Regular grooming is a necessity because of their thick double coat. Because they are autonomous and self-assured, Tibetan Mastiffs need regular socialization and training starting at a young age.
However, they may display protective tendencies and require appropriate training to stop hostility. They might not be suitable for homes with young children or other pets and might be suspicious of strangers. To ensure they fit with your lifestyle and your ability to provide them with the proper care and training, thoroughly investigate their temperament and demands.
Read more About:- MOST EXPENSIVE DOGS
Its origins are in the Himalayan area of Tibet, and it has a long and illustrious history spanning thousands of years. Originally, nomadic tribes bred them to protect property and cattle from wolves and leopards.
Tibetan Mastiffs usually live between 10 and 14 years in captivity, although some may live longer with the proper care and attention to their health. Nutrition, activity, genetics, and veterinary treatment primarily influence nutrition.
Tibetan Mastiffs are famous for being innately protective and protectors. They make good watchdogs because of their intense loyalty to their families and territory.
The thick double coat of a Tibetan Mastiff consists of an exterior coat that is weather-resistant and harsh, with an undercoat that is soft and insulating. Although it protects against the severe Himalayan climate, its opulent mane must be regularly groomed to avoid matting.
Tibetan Mastiffs are devoted dogs yet have a dash of independence. They do best in settings where they have room to move about and follow their instincts.
Renowned for its regal attitude and steadfast devotion, the Tibetan Mastiff is a unique breed with a rich history. This breed represents power, tenacity, and devotion—from its birth in the Himalayan area to its function as a protector of belongings and hearts. The benefits of friendship, protection, and appreciation from a Tibetan Mastiff are immeasurable, but this breed’s size, independence, and particular requirements make ownership extremely important. One may start a path of respect, love, and understanding with this fantastic breed by understanding and honoring its essence. This will result in treasured memories that will last for years to come.
Rare, enormous guard dogs with opulent coats are Tibetan Mastiffs. Their size, breeding, and rarity add respect to them, increasing their cost.
It’s unexpected to learn that their biting force—556, which corresponds to their size—matches their stature. The good news is that English Mastiffs don’t have any strange habits that make us uncomfortable with certain other breeds around families and kids.
Mastiffs are not naturally lazy people. Their bodies are too heavy to move around due to their size. They are designed to maintain composure and relaxation between brief, intense spurts of energy.
--------------------------------------------------
Image credit: mojahata, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 28, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Their size means Tibetan Mastiffs are somewhat prone to conditions like elbow and hip dysplasia, and their coat means they fare better in cold climates and might struggle in hot weather.
Height:
22–28 inches
Weight:
90–160 pounds
Lifespan:
10–14 years
Colors:
Black, brown, gray, red, gold
Suitable for:
Experienced owners with plenty of room, looking for a loyal companion
Temperament:
Intelligent, loving, affectionate, aloof, independent, stubborn
The Tibetan Mastiff is a huge, hairy dog that can weigh as much as 150 pounds and has a long, thick double coat. They are known for being affectionate and gentle with their owners, but they have a guarding instinct, which means they won’t always take to strangers easily. They tend to be driven by their owner and how they greet new people.
Although they are intelligent dogs, their guarding heritage means they are used to being given a task to do and being left to do it. Their independence can manifest as stubbornness, which means training can be more challenging and the breed may be best left to experienced owners.

These are very big dogs, and as is typical with such large breeds, it takes a long time for the Tibetan Mastiff to reach its full size and maturity. Your Tibetan could keep growing until it reaches 2 years of age, despite only having a lifespan of up to around 12 years of age. But, while there will be a lot of growth to come, you should still expect your Tibetan Mastiff to be a big bundle of fluffy puppy that will need socialization and training from a young age.
The Tibetan Mastiff is a purebred, and it carries a big price tag. It is also quite a rare breed, with most owners preferring something on the smaller and less independent side. This rarity means that the Tibetan Mastiff can be difficult to find. You will have to cast a wide net to find breeders, and when you do find them, you will need to conduct thorough research to ensure they are reputable. Have the parents been screened for dysplasia and other big-dog problems? Have the puppies had any socialization other than with their mom? Have they met cats? Ask the breeder these and other questions to ensure that you will get a dog that fits into your family.
The Mastiff is a giant breed and even though buyers and owners know they can potentially weigh up to 150 pounds, it’s quite difficult to accurately assess this size without seeing it firsthand. As such, a lot of giant dogs end up in rescues. Their owners can’t handle the size, and once they start to struggle, training and socialization tend to be the first things to slip so unwanted behaviors manifest in the dog.
Although the breed is rare, it is worth checking with local shelters because you might be able to give a dog a new chance at a loving home.
The size of the Tibetan Mastiff might be the first thing most people see, but look beyond that size and you will find a breed that is loving with family, and quite playful when the mood takes it. Owning one takes work and effort, but the breed can be the ideal dog for the right owners.
Most of the challenges of owning a Tibetan Mastiff are borne from the fact that they were originally bred to be livestock guardians. They were given a herd of animals to look after and left to their own devices. They would patrol and it was them that determined what was and wasn’t a threat, as well as how to deal with any perceived threat. A pet Tibetan Mastiff has this same independence.
The instinct to guard also still exists, which means that Tibetan Mastiffs can treat strangers with a degree of mistrust. You will need to be the one to show your dog who they can trust, and once they see this, they will learn to befriend visitors and offer them the same affection they offer you.
The size of this dog means that it isn’t suitable for life in a small apartment, and its strength means it needs a strong, capable handler. They can bark if left outside for long periods, although they don’t tend to be vocal when kept indoors as part of the family.
The Tibetan Mastiff is very close to its family and is a loving and loyal pet. However, its guarding instinct can lead to territorial behavior which can be a problem with a dog of this size. The size also means that the breed may not be the best choice for families with small children. It only takes an accidental collision for a small child to get hurt and a 150-pound dog has the potential to hurt a fully grown adult, too.
Bigger children should be fine to live with the Tibetan Mastiff as long they are respectful of the dog’s boundaries. The protective nature of the breed means that a giant Tibetan Mastiff might deem it necessary to protect his children from other children who are visiting, which means that loud and rough games are a bad idea.
They will usually get along well with other dogs in their family and are not usually aggressive with dogs outside the home unless they see them as a threat. They can also get along with cats, especially if they are introduced when the Mastiff is still young. Adult Tibetan Mastiffs will take longer to introduce but it is still possible to integrate them into an existing pet family.

The Tibetan Mastiff is a very large dog that has an independent streak, and it can be protective of its family and its territory. It generally requires an experienced owner who has a lot of time to spend working with the dog, but for those with the experience and knowledge, it can make a great companion that is loving and loyal. However, it is not the ideal breed for everybody.
Below, we look at some of the things you need to know if you are considering taking one on.
This is a big dog breed and big dogs eat a lot. The Tibetan Mastiff will need approximately 4 cups of dry kibble a day. The actual amount you need to feed could be a little higher or lower than this, depending on the size of the dog, its activity level, and other factors.
If your vet advises you to feed more or less or put your dog on a specific diet, follow the vet’s advice. Be sure not to overfeed your Mastiff.
Mastiff breeds are prone to putting on excess weight, and an overweight dog is more prone to certain illnesses and health conditions that can reduce life expectancy and make life more difficult for everybody. This also means you need to consider the treats and extra bits of food you give. Treats should make up 10% of your dog’s daily calorie intake, at most, and you will need to reduce feeding levels accordingly. Choose healthy treats that are low in calories, sugar, and fat, if you do feed treats.
Always provide your dog with access to fresh drinking water.
Although this is a large breed, it is also an active one and one that enjoys playing and exercising. Give two walks a day, totaling at least 60 minutes, and look for other ways to offer more exercise. The Tibetan Mastiff won’t typically do well in agility classes but can do very well in strength-based canine sports.
Training is important with this breed. The independent streak can be difficult to control, especially if you don’t put time and effort into training. There will be times when the Tibetan Mastiff really doesn’t want to listen, and you will need to show persistence to get results.
Start training when you bring your dog home from the breeder or shelter. Look for positive behavior and reward it, rather than punishing bad behavior. If your dog feels you are being harsh, it will likely dig its heels and ignore you even more. Your Tibetan Mastiff will likely weigh around 150 pounds which means leash training is going to be essential. It won’t take much effort for your Mastiff to pull you where he wants to go, so you need to get leash walking mastered as soon as possible.
Socialization is also key to the positive development of your Tibetan Mastiff. And this, too, should start as soon as possible. Take your dog to puppy classes, as a means of socializing with other dogs and people. But don’t let the socialization end here. Go on walks to dog parks, mix up the routes you walk, and introduce your dog to new people and other animals when he is young. Continue with training and socialization throughout your dog’s life.
The Tibetan Mastiff is a hairy dog. It has a double coat with a long coarse overcoat and a soft, wooly undercoat. Males tend to have more hair than females, but all Tibetan Mastiffs take a lot of grooming to maintain a healthy coat. The dog will need brushing two or three times a week, at least, to remove dead hairs. This is important despite the fact that the Tibetan Mastiff is known for being a light shedder. Yours may not shed seasonally.
You will need to brush your dog’s teeth three times a week, too. This helps prevent plaque and tartar buildup, which are the foundations of dental disease.
Trim nails when they are getting long enough that you can hear them clicking on the ground and check inside your dog’s ears regularly. Because the ears are covered by thick fur, they can harbor bacteria and they will need regular cleaning.
The Tibetan Mastiff is prone to many of the same problems as other giant breeds, which means you should keep an eye out for joint problems like hip dysplasia and elbow dysplasia. These occur when the bones of the hip or elbow do not align properly, typically because they have grown unevenly or out of place.
It can be painful and may also lead to the dog developing arthritis as it ages. An operation might be necessary, while pain medication can be used to treat the painful symptoms.
When it comes to choosing sex, bear in mind the male will be bigger and is more likely to be territorial and protective of your family.
Males can be more playful while females are more likely to be independent, but it is down to the individual character of your dog more than its sex.

When you first see the coat of the Tibetan Mastiff, it is understandable to think that it will shed a lot. However, the breed is used to living outdoors in cold conditions, and likely as a result of this climate, that thick coat is actually low shedding. Rather than shedding twice a year, the Tibetan Mastiff might shed once, but yours might not shed heavily at all.
However, that thick coat still takes a lot of care, provided through regular brushing.
Tibetan Mastiffs only go into heat once a year, and this means that they only give birth typically in December or January. As such, if you are hoping to get a Tibetan Mastiff, you should start looking just before this time of year as you will likely need to get your name on a waiting list to ensure that you get one.
Tibetan Mastiffs are guardian dogs, and they are independent, but they actually used to protect livestock with the help of a smaller canine companion—the Lhasa Apso. The Lhasa Apso would patrol and bark if it saw anything it thought was threatening. On hearing this alert, the Mastiff would join the Lhasa Apso to look for any signs of trouble.

The most striking features of the Tibetan Mastiff are its incredible size, weighing up to 150 pounds, and that shock of fluffy hair. They make good family dogs, although their size means it is best not to keep them around small children. And they have an independent and somewhat territorial streak which means they are not an ideal choice for first-time owners.
Expect to put a lot of time into training and socialization, as well as providing ample walks each day, and ensure that the breed is not allowed to put on too much weight, or it can be very difficult to shed the extra pounds.
See also:

Featured Image Credit: mojahata, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Matt is a freelance writer from the UK. He lives with his partner and daughter, as well as two cats and one dog.
A data analyst by profession, Matt moved from numbers to words more than 15 years ago and has been writing ever since. Having volunteered at a local animal sanctuary, he has a lot of experience with dogs, cats, and horses. Matt has also kept bearded dragons, a variety of birds, fish, guinea pigs, hamsters, mice, and rats. His daughter has adopted the same passion for animals, keeping and breeding snakes.
A geek at heart, Matt is a member of a local board gaming group and regularly forces his family to “enjoy” board games with him at home.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
