Image Credit: Esin Deniz, Shutterstock
Last Updated on February 25, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click to Skip Ahead
Tiger cats, also known as tabby cats, are one of the most recognizable kitties in the feline world. However, they’re also very misunderstood. Contrary to popular belief, tabbies aren’t a cat breed at all but rather a pattern variation. Read on to learn more about cats with this amazing coat pattern.
Height:
9–16 inches
Weight:
8–15+ pounds
Lifespan:
12–15 years
Colors:
Brown, gray, orange, black, silver, red, etc.
Suitable for:
Families with or without children, seniors, folks living in apartments
Temperament:
Varies depending on breed

The tiger cat pattern dates back to domestic cats in the Middle Ages.
The genetic mutation responsible for producing the blotched tabby pattern emerged during the Ottoman Empire. This empire, also known as the Turkish Empire, spanned most of Southeast Europe, West Asia, and North Africa between the 14th and early 20th centuries. The tiger cat pattern, which is seen in nearly 80% of modern-day cats, slowly became more common throughout Southwest Asia, Africa, and Europe. However, the tabby pattern didn’t become commonplace until around the 18th century.
In ancient Egypt, cats were held in very high esteem. These early tiger cats are likely ancestors of the modern tabbies we adore today and were loved and celebrated for their excellent hunting skills. They kept granaries, ships, and households free from disease-carrying vermin.
As mentioned, the tabby cat pattern didn’t become commonplace worldwide until the 18th century. Towards the end of the 19th century, more North Americans began to keep cats not only for their utility (rat hunting) but also for their company. By the end of World War I, cats had rightfully earned their place as household pets in the U.S. and Canada.
Since tiger cats are not a separate breed but instead a pattern seen in many different cat breeds, there’s no formal recognition available for it. However, many cat breed standards set by The International Cat Association (TICA) and Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) do contain “tabby” as a pattern.
For example, the TICA standard for Bengals includes brown tabby, silver tabby, seal sepia tabby, and seal mink tabby. The CFA breed standard for Maine Coons includes many tabby colors and patterns, including (but not limited to) classic, mackerel, and ticked tabby patterns and brown, silver, red, and blue-silver colors.

When most people think about tabby cats, they think of the distinct “M” marking on the forehead. While this is absolutely one of the tabby patterns, there are actually several others.
The “tabby” pattern title is believed to have originated in the “Attabiy” district of Baghdad, where fine silk and striped cloths were produced. Over time, the Middle French term “tabis,” became “tabis,” before giving rise to our modern English word, “tabby.”
Some believe the “M” stands for “Mau”, the Egyptian word for “cat.”
According to Christian folklore, after Jesus’s birth, a tabby cat showed up to comfort and keep him warm. Mary, ever-grateful for the cat’s presence, stroked the cat’s head, leaving the “M” mark on the forehead.
An Islamic legend suggests that a tabby named Muezza saved his master, Prophet Mohammed, from a snake. To express his gratitude toward the cat, Mohammed gifted them the ability to land on their feet. When Mohammed petted the kitty to thank him for saving his life, the “M” marking appeared and remained.

Tabbies absolutely can make fantastic pets simply because they’re cats, and we believe all cats can be good pets. It’s important to remember that tiger cats aren’t a specific breed, but instead, a pattern that naturally occurs in many different cat breeds, so we can’t say for sure what you should expect personality-wise as we don’t know your kitty’s DNA. For example, a Siamese tabby can have an entirely different personality than a Maine Coon with tabby patterning.
To get a better idea of what your cat’s personality will be like, try searching their breed (not their patterning) using the search function on our site. We have hundreds of blogs about countless different cat breeds, which should shed some light on what to expect personality-wise and the care requirements necessary for your pet’s specific breed.

Tiger cats aren’t a separate breed but a coat pattern commonly seen in several cat breeds. While the tabby pattern is available in many different colors and five distinct styles, there’s certainly no denying how beautiful this patterning can be.
Featured Image Credit: Esin Deniz, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

For Chantelle, writing and animals are the two driving forces in her life. Growing up on the Canadian prairies surrounded by pets, she now shares her home with five cats, two guinea pigs, and a bearded dragon. Chantelle, her husband, and their child pride themselves on being dedicated pet parent, even spending a fortune on wall-mounted cat shelves to provide their cats with an indoor jungle gym. When she's not snuggling with her cats or photographing their humorous moments, Chantelle is exploring the Rocky Mountains, rewatching her favorite Netflix series, and reading up on various random subjects.
I am. major cat lady and a cat mama, I always have been since age 4& a half yrs old..
😻😻 this is the right site for you! 😸
I absolutely love 💖💖 having a  fur baby kitty 🐈 cat always curled up next to me, lily is just so cute 🥰 whenever she is all curled up sleeping next to me and it is all of the time 24/7 and then tuxedo I can not even believe that he is already 8 months old rescued him back in September of this year and gave him to my mom for her birthday 🎈🎂🎉🎂 and tuxie well he really loves to curl up on my mom's bed 🛏️ and just sleeps on her bed or sleeps on my bed 🛏️ and will sleep 😴 for hours sometimes even after being outside for a an entire night or longer all day and all night or when 24 hours goes by he will come back in and he will be so hungry,. and so thirsty that he will drink a lot of water and then just curl up and go back to sleep 😴💤.and then he will. go back outside to go and play until. he is ready to go back outside to play.
Hi Alyssia, thank you very much for sharing your story. Your Tuxido sounds gorgeous, thanks for rescuing him! If you haven't already, please make sure you get him neutered asap; at 8 months he is now of reproductive age. This procedure is safe and quick, it is very important to help prevent stray and feral cats overpopulation because not all kittens get lucky to be rescued like your Tuxie did. You can learn about this procedure in these posts:
Should I Get My Cat Spayed Or Neutered? Facts To Consider (Vet-Reviewed)- https://www.catster.com/cat-health-care/should-i-get-my-cat-spayed/
At What Age Should You Neuter or Spay Your Cat? Vet-Approved Facts & FAQ- https://www.catster.com/cat-health-care/at-what-age-should-you-neuter-or-spay-your-cat/
Thank you for loving cats!
thank you for this info. I'm feeding a feral Bengal and he has a tabby pattern. I'm trying to tame him😊😺
Thanks for your comment Robin. We are delighted to hear you found our post useful. Thanks for reading us.
LOVE all this info.
I AM the Cat 🐈 Lady, wherever I live.
Some of the feral  cats I care for are just as beautiful as these pure breeds.
Every personality  is different.
How I love them all.
Hi Susie, thanks for reading us, and thanks for loving all acts equally. We are delighted to learn that you loved this post.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share

Click Below to Skip Ahead
Let’s get one thing out of the way: When you’re looking for a Tiger cat breed, you’re not actually referring to a type of cat. Instead, you’re focusing on the coat of a cat. While a cat might have a “Tiger cat” coat, the type of cat that you’re looking at is a tabby cat.
Height:
12–15 inches
Weight:
8–12 pounds
Lifespan:
12–15 years
Colors:
Brown with black stripes or orange with dark orange/red stripes
Suitable for:
Apartment dwellers, those with other pets, and active families
Temperament:
Friendly, happy, intelligent, sassy, affectionate, feisty, and a little bossy
Now, let’s dive into everything that you need to know about these adorable felines. From how much they cost to how you need to care for them, we broke it all down for you here!

A post shared by Twattus & Bobble (@twattusandbobble)

While randomly bred tabby cats are far from expensive, if you want a tabby cat with a Tiger coat, you’re not looking for a random tabby cat. So, expect the price to go up significantly. You’ll also need to do the hard work of tracking down a reputable breeder and waiting until they have kittens available.
Always double-check the parent’s medical history and check references from the breeder. The last thing that you want is to spend a ton of money on a tiger tabby cat, only to realize that you’re not getting what you wanted or that the tabby has medical issues. Take your time to research the cat breed that best fits your lifestyle and the breeder that can offer you a healthy cat.
There’s a reason that tabby cats are among the most popular pet cat breeds in the world, and those with a Tiger cat coat are no different. They’re extremely outgoing and friendly. They generally have a happy demeanor and are a bit more trusting than many other cat breeds.
Just be aware that most tabby cats have a strong, sassy, and independent streak. They might want to play with you, but they typically want to do it on their own time. They can also come off as a little bossy because they want what they want only when they want it.
Tiger cats will push the boundaries and try to get away with whatever they can, but to many owners, that’s just a part of their charm!
Yes! Tiger cats are extremely good for families. Whether you’re in a home with older children or you have babies and toddlers just getting a firm footing on the world, a Tiger cat makes a great addition to the home.
They’re nimble enough to get out of the way when children stumble and fall, but they’re outgoing enough that they can handle clumsy hands trying to figure out things. Just remember that you should always supervise interactions between pets and small children.

A post shared by Mr. Kitters📣🐈 (@mr.kitters.the.cat)

While the Tiger cat might have Tiger in their name, that doesn’t mean they have the same aggressive steak that Tigers do. Most Tiger cats are extremely good around other cats and dogs, but you need to be careful with them around smaller pets.
Tiger cats still have the predatory instincts of wild cats, which means they’ll go after rodents, lizards, fish, and other small pets. That said, you shouldn’t have any problem with Tiger cats and traditional large pets.
Before you head out and purchase a Tiger cat, there are a few basic care requirements to be aware of. Nothing about caring for a Tiger cat is all that surprising, but it’s best to have a thorough understanding of everything that you need to know before bringing one home.
The Tiger cat is a tabby cat at heart, so they don’t have any unique dietary requirements. Depending on your Tiger cat’s size, you should feed them between ½ and ¾ cups of high-quality kibble each day.
You can supplement this with the occasional wet food and treats, but as long as you’re giving them a complete cat food, those are not necessary.
Just don’t skimp by giving them lower-quality food. While it might save you a few bucks up front, you’ll only end up spending more in the long run on medical bills, and you might shorten your Tiger cat’s lifespan in the process.

A post shared by Charly (@charlygoestohollywood)

While the Tiger cat might not be the most energetic cat breed out there, that doesn’t mean they don’t need to get moving every now and again. We recommend giving them interactive toys and spending time playing with them.
Still, they aren’t the most energetic cat breeds out there, and you can expect that they’ll spend a decent amount of time just lounging around relaxing and taking naps.
If you’re trying to train your cat to use the litter box, stay out of the kitchen, and only scratch at scratch posts, it’s not too challenging. Anything else, though, and you’re fighting an uphill battle.
Even keeping them out of the kitchen can be a major challenge if you’re not around. The Tiger cat is an extremely intelligent cat, but they’re also independent and feisty and likes to pretend that they rule the roost.
If you convince them that it’s something that they want to do, it’s easy to train them. If they decide that they don’t like the rule and they want to do it, anyway, then it can be a bit of a challenge.
While there are cat breeds out there that shed more than the Tiger cat, that doesn’t mean they’re a low-shedding breed. Expect cat hairs around your home, and to help keep it at bay, you should brush out your Tiger cat once a week.
Past that, you might need to trim their nails if they don’t use a scratch post, and you need to brush their teeth a few times a week. They might not like the teeth brushing at first, but they should get used to it. Since these brushings can save you thousands of dollars in vet bills down the road, we highly recommend getting started as soon as possible!
Since there are so many tabby cats out there, genetic diversity helps keep many health conditions at bay. It also opens up plenty of options for breeders to breed healthier cats.
Therefore, serious health concerns in tabby cats are quite rare. Still, if you notice any of the following problems with your Tiger cat, you need to take them to a vet as soon as possible to see what’s going on.
While there might not be that many differences between male and female Tiger cats, there are two that we’d like to highlight here.
First, male Tiger cats tend to be a little larger than their female counterparts. It’s far more likely that you’ll have a male Tiger cat pushing the 15-inch and 12-pound mark than a female. So, if you want a slightly larger Tiger cat, go with a male; if you want a smaller one, go with a female.
Second, males tend to be a little more affectionate and need more attention than females. While both cats will seek your attention, typically, a male needs more of it. While much of this will come down to your individual cat’s personality, genetics, and sex play roles too.

When looking for a pet Tiger cat, most people mean a tabby cat with a Tiger cat coat. But if you head down to South America, the Oncilla is often referred to as the Tiger cat.
The Oncilla is a vulnerable wild cat species that is illegal to own in many states, but that doesn’t change the fact that they’re tiny and adorable!
Just because you have a tabby cat, that doesn’t mean you have a Tiger cat. But if you have a Tiger cat, then you have a tabby. Many tabbies have a unique striped appearance that earns them the Tiger cat moniker.
But a tabby cat doesn’t need to have the Tiger-striped appearance, so the two aren’t one and the same.
If you have a home with more than one pet, a Tiger cat can be a great addition. They love hanging out with humans and other pets, and they’re among the most outgoing cats out there.
Tiger cats are among the most adorable and striking cats that you can add to your home. But they’re also among the more expensive options out there. If you’re looking to add a Tiger cat to your home and have the money to spend on one, go ahead, but if you’re on a tighter budget, you might want to opt for a regular tabby.
You’ll get the exact same temperament and experience, the only difference being the physical appearance. It’s up to you how much you’re willing to spend for a cat’s appearance alone.
Featured Image Credit: Cressida studio, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
4 Homemade Grain-Free Cat Treat Recipes (Vet Approved)
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Sign up to our newsletter and be the first to find out about new arrivals, exclusive promos and helpful cat-related tips
by signing up to our newsletter you are agreeing to our privacy policy
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Dogs
Cats
Info
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
The Tiger cat isn’t actually one breed as such, as it certainly isn’t a combination cat from a mating between a Tiger and a domestic cat as that is just plain impossible.
Tiger cats are simply certain cat breeds that have patterns that make them look similar to the big, wild Tiger of India.
It is thought that striped tabby cats are Tiger cats. Tabby cats are often called Tiger cats because of their striped fur pattern. These tabby cats aren’t a breed either but rather a cat with a certain pattern.
The Tiger Cat can actually be any of a pure-bred cat breeds you get and this could be American Shorthairs, American Bobtails and Maine Coon cats.
Just some of the cats out there that look like Tiger cats are the Bengal, the Savannah cat, the Toyger, Bombay, and Abyssinian.
Some of these cats are larger than the others. The Toyger is the perfect example of these domesticated Tiger-like cats. It’s a cat that is a mix between a Bengal and an ordinary cat from India.
They can be fairly large these cats and weigh anything between 4 and 7kg, possibly more. It looks like a Tiger – the whole purpose of breeding them in the first place.
The coat is short and thick with orange and gold tones and black stripes. They come in in red, brown, or grey shades but the coat is always striped.
Because tiger cats are actually tiger-striped tabbies, they come with the typical Tabby cat personality.
Sometimes they can be aloof and mysterious but most times they are social and friendly. They thrive on the attention they get from their human family,
The Tiger cat, just like any other cat, wants to have a good home where he is loved and cared for. Because the Tiger cat is describing a coat and not an actual cat breed, the Tiger cat can come with many different kinds of personalities. He can be lively and vocal or quiet and shy. Many pets turn out with personalities similar to their owners.
If you decide to take in a Tiger cat, it is your duty as a responsible pet owner to ensure his wellbeing and happiness.
As a pet owner, you have to be able to recognize the signs of an animal that is sick. If your cat persists with his problems, you will need to get him to the vet so that the vet can conduct a careful examination to get to the root of the problem.
Did you know there are several cat vaccinations your cat must have to avoid some of the deadly cat diseases there are?
Some of the common cat diseases to look out for are diabetes, hyperthyroidism, bladder infection and eye problems.
Cats are fairly easy pets to care for and they are able to adapt to different lifestyles and environments too.
Before you bring a cat into your home, make sure that you have everything ready to welcome your pet. These are things such as food and water bowls, a soft bed, litter box, toys, a brush, scratching post as well as other cat accessories to make his life comfortable.
--------------------------------------------------
Our online vet service is live
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Tiger cats, classically known as tabby cats, are quite popular in the feline world. This is not a singular breed but rather a color pattern variation. There are a total of four recognized patterns: classic, mackerel, spotted, and ticked.
Height:
12–18 inches
Weight:
15–35 pounds
Lifespan:
12–15 years
Colors:
Black, gray, white
Suitable for:
Any cat-friendly indoor home
Temperament:
Playful, affectionate, talkative


A post shared by Kerry (@modernmaterialgirl)

If you were looking to purchase a tiger kitten, chances are that you can find one for free. However, if you want to get a purebred cat, several can carry the tiger pattern in their DNA.
You can find many tiger cats to choose from at local rescues, on ad sites, and on social media platforms. If you are purchasing a kitten from a private seller, costs can vary. Just make sure you aren’t encouraging people who are breeding common house cats for profit. There are so many homeless kitties in the world, and most cats in those situations have not been cared for properly.

Tiger cats vary in intelligence based on their personality traits. It’s hard to measure just how intelligent one of these cats will be on a coat pattern alone. However, many describe tabby cats as having sweet, curious demeanors. They have a strong sense of independence and love to chase their newest toys around the house.
Tiger cats have a natural knack for hunting. So, don’t be surprised if you wake up to find a surprise mouse that was just harvested for you, since you’re a silly human who can’t hunt for themselves!
Like almost any kitty, a tiger cat makes a charming addition to any home. Due to their adventurous spirit, however, they need to be indoors to prevent them from running away or getting lost.
Since they tend to be outgoing, this may be a feline pal that loves cuddling up next to a complete stranger the first time they visit your home. They aren’t very shy either. So, the new guest will likely get sniffs, bunts, and meows as a formal greeting.
There is no age group limitation. Tiger cats do well with children if they are raised together. Also, these cats make perfect companion animals for seniors.

A post shared by Bella, Willow, Louis, Alfie + Cleo 🇦🇺 (@bella.with.willow)

Tiger cats will love having a friend to hang out with, so other cats are a must-have. They will love nothing more than spending their days cuddled up or pouncing on another cat. They can get along well with canine companions too—permitting that they are raised alongside one another.
However, due to their high prey drive potential, they can’t be trusted around smaller pets and caged animals. You should always warrant caution and offer supervision, even when your other pet is in a cage.
Cats can wind their paws easily to fit through bars and could seriously hurt another animal without understanding the repercussions of their actions.

As with any other feline, tiger cats need a high-quality, high-protein diet with plenty of nutrients to nourish muscles, organs, and skin. Even though dry kibble is perfectly designed to meet all nutritional profiles, some cats prefer a more savory selection.
You can add wet food as a topper to stimulate the tastebuds. Lots of owners are also trying homemade and raw food diets. This holistic approach gives you full control over what goes into your cat’s mouth to ensure only the best for your pets.
If you do choose a handmade diet, you should always clear recipes with your vet. They will guide you on portioning these meals based on your cat’s age, weight, and overall health.
Tiger-patterned cats are usually pretty high energy until after they are spayed or neutered. They typically have playful spirits and make terrific hunters. Luckily, your cat doesn’t need a great deal of exercise to be fit.
On average, cats require 15 minutes of continuous exercise per day. You can get them self-play toys like scratching posts, activity stations, and catnip toys. You can also get interactive games to play with your cat if you want to join in on the fun.
Litter training should be a cinch for your tiger cat. Usually, kittens are potty trained before they’re even ready to come home with you at 8 weeks. It’s luckily a natural impulse for cats to want to cover up their waste, so they appreciate the litter box.
But there are cats that need a little more time and patience. Most tiger cats will catch on fast, but some need a few extra introductions to their potty area. Sometimes, you might have to restrict free-roaming until your cat catches on.
When it comes to other concepts, your cat can absolutely pick up on trick training. It might be a bit more challenging if you’re trying to avoid certain behaviors, like scratching and marking, but there are sprays, tapes, and other deterrents to channel behavior.
Grooming your cat depends a lot on their coat type. Tiger cats can have short, medium, and long fur. Short-haired cats do most of the hard work for you by self-grooming, but long-haired cats need a little extra help.
To prevent hairballs and excess shedding, you can brush your cat a few times a week with a slicker or synthetic brush. Clipping nails are optional, and you should really only perform this action if you’re familiar with the process. If you clip nails too short, it can cause bleeding. So, if you don’t feel confident, trust a professional.
Since dental issues are so prevalent in cats, it’s best to brush their teeth regularly to prevent plaque and tartar buildup.
Cats are overall pretty healthy animals, though some breeds are more prone to specific health issues than others. Since this is a pattern variation, it’s a little hard to say what your cat might be susceptible to.
The best way to prevent developing issues is with annual health checks. Always keep your cat up to date with vaccines, and schedule them as soon as possible for spay or neuter surgery to avoid marking and unwanted pregnancy.
Here are common health concerns that might pop up in any cat, regardless of the breed.

Males and females will each have their own personalities, but certain characteristics fall to one side or the other. For instance, males are notoriously more lovable and needy than their female counterparts, and females might be a bit more selective about who wins their affections.

If you ever met a tortie, you surely won’t soon forget it. The colors on these cats are absolutely gorgeous, and their attitudes are feisty as all get out. Torties are actually considered a “patched” tabby since they can have the print on various parts of their bodies.
Tiger markings are terrific for lurking around undetected in nature. Of course, your housecat probably won’t utilize this natural camouflage much, but they might think they do.
If you leave a cat to hunt, they will impress you with their swiftness and agility. Female cats tend to be better hunters than males, especially after a spay or neuter surgery.

Even though tiger cats are just a pattern variation of various breeds, they do carry certain traits. Anyone who has ever loved a kitty with this coat type could tell you stories for days about their unique personality quirks. These playful balls of joy might look different from cat to cat, but the pattern is still beautiful.
Luckily, you can find a tiger cat in virtually any litter, so you won’t have trouble seeking one out. Always look at local shelters for homeless kitties that could use forever homes; otherwise, we wish you the best of luck in your search for a purebred tiger-coated kitty!
See also:
Sources

Featured Image Credit: Pixabay
Share
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve PangoVet for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

No stressful travel
Personalized advice
Read more
We are here to help. Simply schedule an appointment by clicking on the button below.
5.0
At PangoVet, we care about you, your pet, and the bond that makes them family. We are here to keep them happy and healthy.
+1 (530) 453-0360[email protected]
2999 Douglas Blvd., Suite 180M, Roseville, CA 95661 United States
Warning: If your pet has suffered a sudden trauma or is experiencing any life-threatening signs, such as breathing difficulties, bleeding, or bloating, don’t waste valuable time and take them to the nearest emergency clinic.
Copyright © 2025 PangoVet. All rights reserved.
Didn't find what you need? Use the search!
Close the search
--------------------------------------------------
By
			
			Maggie Clancy
“Tiger cat” sounds like an exotic breed, such as the Savannah cat. Many people may think tigers can be crossbred with domestic cats to make a striped, exotic tiger kitty.
Tiger cats of that nature do not exist in the domestic world, but there are some breeds and patterns of cats that earn them the nickname tiger cat.
Here’s what you need to know about domestic cat breeds that look like tiny tigers, but aren’t!
Los Angeles based breeder Judy Sugden started aiming to make a domestic tiger cat breed in the 1980s. She wanted a cat that resembled a tiger, and the result is the adorably named Toyger.
Toygers began with the breeding of domestic shorthair cats with striped tabby patterns and Bengal cats chosen for their fur patterns.
The mix of the tabby stripes and the Bengal’s spots capture the glistening pattern of a striped tiger. TICA already recognizes the Toyger as a championship breed.
If you like the idea of a tiger cat minus the actual lineage of a wildcat like a tiger, then the Toyger is a breed to consider! Make sure to check your local shelters or rescues, and you can also look for adoptable cats in your area with CatTime’s adoption page!
There’s little doubt that many striped tabby cats have been named Tiger. Tabbies often get the nickname “tiger cats” because of their striped fur patterns.
Tabby cats are not their own breed of cats, but rather a type of pattern that can emerge on the fur of many breeds. An orange tabby cat would be one of the closest things to having your own tiger cat!
There are many larger breeds of domestic cat that resemble tigers. If a Toyger is out of the question, then a Bengal would be a good option for someone looking for a tiger cat.
Bengals tend to be a bit on the larger side and are said to be very intelligent. The pattern of their coat can be reminiscent of a leopard, which is what domestic cats were originally bred with to create the Bengal cat.
But don’t confuse Bengal cats with the much larger and wild Bengal tigers.
Other cats that can be large with striped tabby patterns include the Maine Coon, the Savannah Cat, and the Abyssinian.
It should go without saying, but keeping a tiger as a pet is incredibly dangerous, as tigers are wild animals. Tigers are not domesticated cats, and even some of the most “tame” tigers have attacked their humans.
Most states do not even allow for individuals to keep tigers as pets. These big cats are meant to stay in the wild where they belong or in the care of competent, trained caretakers at proper tiger sanctuaries.
If you’re really craving a tiger cat, then try adopting one of the domesticated variations listed above. You’ll be giving a cat in need a home, and you’ll also have your own mini tiger to snuggle.
Do you have a cat who looks like a tiger? Do they act anything like their big cat cousins? Let us know in the comments below!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
