Cat Breeds
Can’t decide whether you prefer a Siamese or a Burmese? That’s where the “Tonk” or Tonkinese cat comes in! This adorable kitty offers the best of both breeds, thanks to its Siamese and Burmese heritage.
Tonkinese cats have fantastic personalities, but there’s a tradeoff for their love of human companionship: You can’t leave these kitties to their own devices for too long, too often, or they run the risk of developing separation anxiety. If you’re someone who spends a lot of time at work and you’re leaning heavily toward the Tonkinese, you can compromise by getting two cats instead of one. With a feline companion – perhaps a sibling – the Tonkinese has someone to talk to and spend time with, and there’s far less risk of unwanted behaviors. Plus, you get twice the love!
Tonkinese are nimble cats. Excellent climbers with a fondness for high places, they’re often found on top of refrigerators, tall cabinets, and other elevated spots. From there, they’ll often provide their human friends with unsolicited advice concerning everything from the amount of food in their dish to the evening’s entertainment. Leave the room, and they’re likely to follow you through the entire house, “helping” the entire time.
Just like Siamese and Burmese cats, Tonkinese love water. Leave a large, shallow pan of water on the floor for them to dabble in, perhaps with a few toys floating, and you’ll be able to catch a few moments to yourself – if you can tear yourself away from their adorable antics, that is!
Tonkinese cats might choose a single family member to lavish with attention, or they might share affection with everyone equally. One thing is certain: When it’s time to cuddle, these kitties are experts! Whether they’re lying in your lap while you read or watch TV, or if they’re lounging beside you in bed, you’ll appreciate their warmth, their soft coats, and their loving purrs.
Tonkinese cats have no special nutritional needs, however they can be prone to obesity later in life, meaning quality food that’s high in protein and low in carbohydrates is ideal. Look for a brand that relies on real meat or fish instead of fillers.
The Tonkinese cat has a very short, fairly low-shedding coat, and does not require much brushing. Do give them a quick once-over every few days; this will remove excess hair, cut back on shedding, and reduce the likelihood of hairballs.
Dental care is important as Tonkinese can be prone to periodontal disease. An at-home toothbrushing routine will cut back on professional cleanings as well as anesthesia exposure and expense.
You might also wish to clip your cat’s claws. Toenail trims aren’t terribly difficult, but this (along with toothbrushing) is a routine you’ll want to establish from a young age. Once your cat knows what to expect – including praise and rewards – they’ll be far less resistant to essential care.
Tonkinese cats love to run, and they’re outstanding jumpers. Given the chance, they’ll happily climb whichever objects happen to be nearby, making a robust cat condo one of life’s essentials. Treat your cat to at least one scratching post and provide plenty of toys including those that let you get involved.
If you’ve ever heard that Tonkinese are similar to dogs, you’ve heard correctly! These cats love to play fetch and they’re fond of leashed walks around the neighborhood. These kitties aren’t difficult to leash-train; just like every other learned behavior, they do best with positive reinforcement and a gradual approach.
Later in life, your Tonkinese cat might slow down a bit. This means that you might find yourself encouraging more walks and stimulating more play than before. Since obesity is a common factor in older kitties, every bit of movement will count as your feline friend ages.
Tonkinese cats have an outstanding reputation for enjoying great health. Some individuals are at risk of inflammatory bowel disease, feline lower urinary tract disease, and renal amyloidosis. None of these issues are prevalent, but your vet will want to watch for signs that they might be developing.
Even though the Tonkinese is a relatively modern cat breed, feline historians believe that Tonkinese have been with us since the early 20th century. In 1930, a cat named Wong Mau was imported to the United States. Even though she was supposedly a “Burmese type” cat, it’s likely that she was a Burmese – Siamese cross, which means that even though the Tonkinese cat breed had yet to be listed, she was in fact Tonkinese. As one of the breed’s matriarchs, Wong Mau is still found on many contemporary Tonkinese pedigrees.
We have two separate breeders to thank for the Tonkinese cats we know and love today. Jane Barletta, a US cat breeder, and Margaret Conroy, a cat breeder from Canada, set up separate Siamese / Burmese crossbreeding operations. Others soon followed suit and this captivating cat breed rapidly gained popularity.
The Tonkinese was introduced to competition in the 1980s. First granted official recognition in Canada, Tonkinese cats were given championship status by the Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) in 1984. Once the breed was firmly established outcrossing to Burmese and Siamese cats was discontinued.
Tonkinese cats are widely recognized by cat breed registries worldwide including The International Cat Association (TICA), the Australian Cat Federation (ACF), the Canadian Cat Association (CCA) and others.
The Tonkinese cat breed was originally spelled “Tonkanese.” Even though some stories state that the breed is named after the Indochina region of Tonkin, the original intent was to give a nod to the musical “South Pacific,” which referred to an island where individuals of mixed origin were safe from persecution.
Tonkinese cats remain playful and active for most of their lives when given the opportunity. As kittens, they’re balls of fun-loving energy – and they don’t grow up fast: It can take up to two years for a Tonkinese to reach maturity, and for the cat’s coat to reach its final color.
The Tonkinese is the first pedigreed cat to be accepted with aqua-colored eyes. Other eye colors are acceptable too; many individuals have brilliant blue eyes.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Tonkinese, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Tonkinese or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Tonkinese, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Tonkinese cats cost between $600 - $1000.
Tonkinese cats tend to be small in size. A fully grown Tonkinese cat might weigh between 6-12 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8"- 10" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Tonkinese is 14-16 years.
Tonkinese are short-haired cats. Therefore, they do not shed as much as long-haired cat breeds.
We found “Blue” on the streets of Milwaukee (vet says he was about a year old), he either escaped or someone just decided they didn’t want him.  He is a great cat and seems to be so thankful for a good home.  He over eats so we have to watch him he has become a pretty big boy since he found a good home.  He is very affectionate and reminds me of having a dog around.  Comes when called and is allowed to go outside but stays right around home.  They are wonderful cats!  I would have two but I have another short hair cat named Mister that is much more spicey than Blue and I don’t think 3 cats would work.  I also have 2 dogs it’s like a zoo here but I love them all!!!
I have a 6 year old Tonk and will be getting another in February 2023. i’ve had Siamese and Burmese, but Tonks are my favorite.
I got my beautiful blue-grey mink Tonkinese through the Siamese Cat Rescue Association out of Virginia in 2015. Because the Tonk was developed as a hybrid between Siamese and Burmese, they were the logical choice I guess for someone to surrender her.  Although the Siamese Cat Rescue was based in Virginia, my baby was being fostered in Ft. Wayne Indiana and I live in Indianapolis. She was named, “Alice in Wonderland,” however, she is now Her Royal Highness, Princess Celeste Aida. She is a most operatic purrsonality. As I drove her home, we listened to music and sang – she meowed at the end of each phrase. She was 5.5 y.o. in Jan. of 2015, and is perfectly lively and curious and beautiful today.I so wish I had known her as a kitten. I am blessed to have her as my companion. She loves company – mine best, but is friendly toward others who treat her with respect. I have been able to leave her in our home when I go away and have someone who loves her check on her daily, and so not disrupt her life as much. To this day, I cannot imagine why the folks who had her in KY surrendered her. She is a princess in appearance, temperament and habits. Please check out breed rescues to find your own dear Princess and my best wishes to you.
We are elderly couple who love cats, like a cat which don’t shed much.  Tonkinese cat sounds good to us.   Interested in getting a kitten in October 2022.  Can you help ?
Hello Harry, thanks for commenting. I would recommend doing a Google search for “Tonkinese cat breeders near me” or “Tonkinese cat breeders + (your area)”.
I would love to suggest google search for Tonkinese rescue and also add your breed preference to other cat rescue organizations and websites out there to rescue or rehome a Tonkinese rather than purchase one from a breeder 🙂  Adoptapet.com, Petfinder.com, are just a couple, but you can call or visit veterinarians and let them know what you are looking for as there are a myriad of reasons animals have to be given up for adoption (owners deceased, animals in household not getting along happily, allergies, moving to a ‘no pets allowed’ apartment, etc, etc.
--------------------------------------------------
Tonkinese is a domestic cat breed produced by crossbreeding between the Siamese and Burmese. Members of the breed are distinguished by a pointed coat pattern in a variety of colors. In addition to the modified coat colors of the "mink" pattern, which is a dilution of the point color, the breed is now being shown in the foundation-like Siamese and Burmese colors: pointed with white and solid overall (sepia).
The best known variety is the short-haired Tonkinese, but there is a semi-longhaired (sometimes called Tibetan) which tends to be more popular in Europe, mainly in the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg, and France.
The modern Tonkinese breed is a reconstruction of a breed brought to the West in the 19th century.[1] These cats were originally known as 'chocolate Siamese'.[2] Breeders working with imported cats from Malaysia noticed some cats have aquamarine eyes and darker coats than the Siamese. In 1901 the Siamese Cat Club recognised them as a Siamese of the 'chocolate' type.[1]
Many of the cats used to found the Siamese and Burmese in the West are believed to be Tonkinese, including Wong Mau. Tonkinese would be bred still but registered as either Burmese or Siamese, it was not until the 1950s that breeders would take interest in the cat. These breeders worked together on developing breeding lines with these cats and by 1965 the Tonkinese was recognised in Canada as a distinct breed — whence the name originated.[1]
More modern Tonkinese cats are the result of the crossbreeding programs of two breeders working independently of each other. Margaret Conroy, of Canada, and Jane Barletta, of the United States, crossed the Siamese and Burmese breeds, with the aim of creating the ideal combination of both parent breeds' distinctive appearance and lively personalities. The cats thus produced were moved from crossbreed classification to an established breed in 2001.[2] The name is a reference to the Tonkin region of Indochina, though it is suggestive only, as the cats have no connection with the area.[3]
In the West, Tonkinese cats under the age of sixth months have historically been referred to as "small-cats" rather than "kittens" to reflect a more direct translation from Burmese, although this term has become almost obsolete since the mid-20th century.[citation needed]
The breed received championship status with the Cat Fanciers' Association in 1984.[2] The Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF) recognised the breed in 1991. Today the breed is recognised in most of Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Japan, and South Africa. Over 30 countries have Tonkinese cats featured on postage stamps.[1]
Tonkinese are a medium-sized cat, considered an intermediate type between the slender, long-bodied modern Siamese and European Burmese and the more "cobby", or substantially-built American Burmese. Like their Burmese ancestors, they are deceptively muscular and typically seem much heavier than expected when picked up. Tail and legs are slim but proportionate to the body, with distinctive oval paws. They have a gently rounded, slightly wedge-shaped head and blunted muzzle, with moderately almond-shaped eyes and ears set towards the outside of their head.[2] The American style is a rounder but sculpted head with a shorter body and sturdier appearance to reflect the old-fashioned Siamese and rounded Burmese from which it was originally bred in the United States. While many American breeders avoided using the extreme "contemporary" Burmese in favor of the more moderate "traditional" Burmese, the original Tonkinese breed standard was based on the extreme spherical style of the Burmese descended from Wong Mau.[citation needed]
The Tonkinese comes in the several colours listed below.
Each color also has three variations of colorpoint coat pattern:
Additionally, all colors can present in the tortoiseshell or tabby patterns.[4]
Depending on the cat registry, not all colors and patterns are allowed for the Tonkinese cat breed. Tonkineses are currently officially recognized by the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) and World Cat Federation (WCF)[5] in only four base colors: black (brown, seal, natural), blue, chocolate (champagne), and lilac (platinum). All four base colors are allowed in the three colorpoint patterns. The GCCF accepts brown, blue, chocolate, lilac, cinnamon, and fawn, red, cream, plus caramel and apricot. These colors are allowed in the tortoiseshell and tabby patterns, and additionally the three colorpoint patterns.[4] Similar to the GCCF, The International Cat Association (TICA) accepts all of the genetically possible colors and patterns.[6]
Like both parent breeds, Tonkinese are active, vocal and generally people-oriented cats, playful and interested in everything going on around them; however, this also means they are easily susceptible to becoming lonesome or bored. Their voice is similar in tone to the Burmese, persistent but softer and sweeter than the Siamese, similar to the gentle quacking of a duck. Like Burmese, Tonkinese are reputed to sometimes engage in such dog-like behaviors as fetching, and to enjoy jumping to great heights.[7]
In a 2012 review of over 5,000 cases of urate urolithiasis the Tonkinese was significantly under-represented, with only one of the recorded cases belonging to the breed against a population of 365.[8]
Tonkin is a crossbreed type, with coat color and pattern wholly dependent on whether individuals carry the Siamese or Burmese gene. Breeding two mink Tonkinese cats does not usually yield a full litter of mink kittens, as this intermediate pattern is the result of having one gene for the Burmese solid pattern and one for the Siamese pointed pattern.[9]
Colors and patterns in any litter depend both on statistical chance and the color genetics and patterns of the parents. Breeding between two mink-patterned cats will, on average, produce half mink kittens and one quarter each pointed and sepia kittens. A pointed and a sepia bred together will always produce all mink patterned kittens. A pointed bred to a mink will produce half pointed and half mink kittens, and a sepia bred to a mink will produce half sepia and half mink kittens.[9]
--------------------------------------------------
Tonkinese cats are a charming breed known for their distinctive appearance and engaging personalities. Originating from the crossbreeding of Siamese and Burmese cats, they boast a unique coat that typically combines the sable’s warmth with the Siamese’s color points. The Tonkinese rose to national recognition in the 1960s when Jane Barletta promoted the breed on Jeopardy! while being a contestant.
Renowned for their social nature and tender attitude, Tonkinese cats make delightful companions and are loved for their playful, lively, and curious nature. Their active interest in family activities and their taste for interactive play make them a popular choice among cat lovers seeking a warm and loving feline companion.
When considering a Tonkinese, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Tonkinese kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Tonkinese breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy kitty while discouraging unethical breeding practices.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
The Tonkinese is the love child of the Siamese and Burmese breeds. The two breeds from Southeast Asia were crossed in an attempt to create a cat with a moderate body type, a less piercing voice than the Siamese but with loving nature and intelligence shared by both the Siamese and Burmese.
But the story of their affair began with a case of mistaken identity. Wong Mau, a small, dark-brown cat, belonged to Dr. Joseph Thompson. A sailor, knowing of Dr. Thompson’s interest in felines, had brought him the cat, acquired in a far-away port. Wong Mau was at first thought to be a Siamese with a chocolate-colored coat. Such Siamese weren’t unheard of. “Chocolate Siamese” were described in the 1880s. Their bodies were tan or brown, and they had seal-brown or nearly black points.
The seal-point Siamese, also known as royal Siamese, had lighter bodies that contrasted with their dark points and were preferred by breeders and the public. The chocolate-colored cats eventually disappeared in Britain, but they still existed in Thailand and Burma (now known as Myanmar), where they were probably the offspring of natural (as opposed to human-directed) matings between free-roaming Siamese and Burmese cats. Wong Mau was one of them. It was her destiny to become the matriarch of two new breeds: the Burmese and, later, the Tonkinese.
The first deliberate crosses between Siamese and Burmese began in the 1950s with Milan Greer, who called the cats “golden Siamese.” He didn’t continue his breeding program, but other breeders became interested in producing a dark-brown cat with points and crossed Siamese with Burmese to do so. The Canadian Cat Association began registering the “Tonkanese” in 1967 and other cat associations eventually followed suit, although some, such as the Cat Fanciers Association, did not grant recognition until almost 20 years later, in 1984.
The name under its original spelling of Tonkanese was said to reference the musical South Pacific, which featured an island where no one discriminated against “half-breeds.” There was often confusion about the spelling, however, so in 1971 the name was officially changed to Tonkinese—after the exotic-sounding Bay of Tonkin in Vietnam—even though the cats had no association with that country.
The Tonk feels surprisingly heavy when picked up and can weigh six to 12 pounds or more.
The Tonk, as he’s nicknamed, is friendly, active and loving. If you think of cats as being aloof and independent, it’s only because you haven’t yet met a Tonkinese. He demands attention and affection and won’t rest until he gets it. This is a cat who will follow you around, ride on your shoulder and be involved in all family activities. He likes meeting people and is not the type of cat who will be satisfied to stay home alone all the time. If you work during the day, it’s a good idea to make sure he has a friend to keep him occupied, whether it’s another Tonkinese or other cat or even a dog.
Like his forebear the Siamese, the Tonk is brainy and active. He likes to jump up to high places, retrieves as if he were born to it, masters puzzle toys instantly and will learn to walk on leash if you so desire. Teach him tricks and provide him with a rotating assortment of interactive toys to keep his mind and body exercised.
Tonkinese can be stubborn in their quest to get their own way, but their clownish behavior is so endearing that it doesn’t really matter. A Tonk is talkative, although his voice is not as loud and raspy as that of a Siamese. The Tonk also has a softer side. He loves sitting in a lap and will claim yours just as soon as you sit down.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Tonkinese are generally healthy, although they can be prone to gingivitis and may be sensitive to anesthesia. Because they descend from the Siamese, albeit relatively far up on their family tree, they may also develop some of the same diseases that affect the Siamese, including the following:
The soft, short coat of the Tonkinese is easily cared for with weekly brushing to remove dead hair and distribute skin oil. A bath is rarely necessary. Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the litter box spotlessly clean. Like all cats, Tonkinese are very particular about bathroom hygiene. It’s a good idea to keep a Tonkinese as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Tonkinese who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Tonkinese is a medium-size cat with a moderate body. Goldilocks would have liked him: he’s not too sleek and he’s not too chunky; for Tonk fans, he’s just right. A Tonk’s head is a slightly rounded wedge shape, a little longer than it is wide. Medium-size ears are broad at the base with oval tips, and aqua, blue, green or yellow-green eyes (depending on coat color) are an open almond shape, slanting along the cheekbones toward the outer edge of the ear.
The muscular body is supported by slim legs on oval paws. The tail is proportionate in length to the body and tapers toward the end. The short coat of the Tonkinese comes in a medium thickness and feels soft and silky. It comes in “mink,” solid, and pointed shades in natural, champagne, blue and platinum, for a total of 12 different colorways.
The active and social Tonkinese is a perfect choice for families with children and cat-friendly dogs. He will play fetch as well as any retriever, learns tricks easily and loves the attention he receives from children who treat him politely and with respect. He lives peacefully with cats and dogs who respect his authority. Always introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: dezy, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 29, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Are you on the prowl for that purr-fect feline that you can bring home to your family today? If so, the Tonkinese cat may be the ideal purebred for you! As a truly unique breed developed to capture the best characteristics of the Burmese and Siamese, the Tonkinese is an affectionate, friendly, and highly intelligent cat that loves children and other pets.
Height:
6–8 inches
Weight:
6–12 pounds
Lifespan:
10–16 years
Colors:
Fawn and black, Silver, Gray, Taupe, Blue, Lilac, Brown, Caramel
Suitable for:
Seniors, Apartment dwellers, Families with older children
Temperament:
Playful, Intelligent, Loyal & loving, Curious
In this in-depth guide on the Tonkinese, we’ll discuss everything you need to know about this unique cat to decide if this breed is right for you.

Painstakingly developed through careful breeding selection, the Tonkinese was originally conceived by Margaret Conroy, a Canadian breeder, in the 1960s. It’s now recognized by The International Cat Association, the Cat Fanciers’ Association, and the Canadian Cat Association; the Tonkinese is an extremely popular breed all across the world.
Just like dog breeders, bad cat breeders want to gain a pretty profit at the expense of the animals they are breeding and selling. All across the United States, commercial cat breeding operations known as kitten mills are churning out hundreds of purebred kittens annually. Though these purebred kittens are being offered at exceptionally low prices, they are often plagued by numerous physical and emotional problems.
This is because kitten mills often do not care about the health and happiness of their cats and kittens. Felines are kept in close, cramped quarters, with numerous cats occupying the same small space. These cages are typically unsanitary, spreading disease and discomfort. While you’re on the lookout for a good Tonkinese cat breeder, it’s important to know some of the warning signs of a kitten mill.
If you come across any of the aforementioned red flags, do not do business with the breeder. You could be bringing home a Tonkinese kitten with several health complications.

The Tonkinese is the perfect package! With great looks and an awesome personality to match, the Tonk will make a great pet for almost everyone. The Tonkinese is playful, curious, loving, and charismatic, and it loves getting attention and affection from its family. This includes kids and even other household animals! The cat is also an intensely intelligent feline and can even learn basic tricks, like fetching and giving you high fives.
Due to their social nature, the Tonkinese will not do well in a household where their human companions are gone for long periods. This could result in the cat getting bored, lonely, and restless.
Yes, the Tonkinese cat is wonderful for families, even ones with younger children. Because of their outgoing, social, and loving nature, the Tonkinese will thrive in a household with numerous kids.
Absolutely! The Tonkinese is an extremely good-natured kitty who loves playing with other household cats and even dogs.

Now that you know more about your Tonkinese cat’s personality, let’s explore all of its other wellness requirements, including the diet and grooming needs.
One of the most important considerations when you bring a new Tonkinese kitty home is exactly what to feed the cat. Should you feed her dry or wet cat food? The truth is, both options are great for this breed. Wet food, in moderation, can keep them properly hydrated, while quality cat kibble will provide them with all of the vitamins and nutrients.
Like any other animal, your Tonkinese will need adequate amounts of daily exercise to stay fit and healthy. The easiest way to exercise your feline friend is to use interactive cat toys, such as a laser or feathers on a fishing pole. Both of these toys encourage your cat to move, run, and jump.
Along with physical stimulation, your Tonkinese needs mental engagement as well. Electronic toys that they can play with by themselves are great. But they aren’t suitable replacements for good old-fashioned human connection. Spend a lot of quality time with your Tonk by petting and cuddling them.
Thanks to its high intelligence, it is possible to train your Tonkinese. Positive reinforcement methods, such as clicker training, work great for this breed.
Though it isn’t a high-maintenance breed when it comes to grooming requirements, your Tonkinese loves to be brushed, petted, and stroked. To keep the thick coat shiny and free of tangles, use a rubber grooming paddle. This will gently massage their skin as you brush them for an amazing spa-like experience.
Though the Tonkinese are healthy and hardy cats overall, they are prone to certain health issues that are associated with the two parent breeds, the Burmese and the Siamese.
This is why it is so important to buy a Tonkinese from a responsible cat breeder that conducts rigorous health tests on the kittens they sell. Equally as important is to routinely take your cat in for regular vet appointments.
Male Tonkinese cats will be larger than their female counterparts. No large personality differences exist between the two sexes.
The Tonkinese was officially changed from a crossbred to a purebred in 2001.
Thanks to its Siamese and Burmese origin, your Tonkinese can have stunning ice-blue eyes.
That’s right! Thanks to a New Jersey breeder who mentioned the breed on the popular game show “Jeopardy,” the Tonks’ popularity skyrocketed.

If you’re searching for a lovable and loyal feline friend, the Tonkinese cat breed could be the perfect match for you and your family. They’re outgoing, playful, patient, and smart, and they get along with young children and other pets. Since they’re highly social, these cats will not do well if left alone for long stretches of time and may develop separation anxiety.
When shopping for a Tonkinese breeder, keep an eye out for signs of a kitten mill, including cheap prices, filthy living conditions, and no vet records. The Tonkinese is an amazing cat for almost any home. Consider adding this lovely ball of fluff to your family today!
See Also:
Featured Image Credit: dezy, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Christian started writing for a local newspaper as a teenager, and he's been involved in the publishing industry for most of his adult life. Combining his love of writing with a passion for animals, he is currently the Director of Editorial at Pangolia and the Editor-in-Chief at Catster.

Christian lives in the Philippines with his wife, son, and four rescue cats: Trixie, Chloe, Sparky, and Chopper.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
It was about in 1960 that a breeding program was established for these cats. The Tonkinese is a cat that hails from Canada and it was a certain Jane Batlett who was responsible for breeding this cat.
Also, Margaret Conroy, another breeder, set up her breeding program between a Burmese female with a Siamese. Both Conroy and Bartlett worked together on the breed and the Tonkinese came about. The Cat Fanciers Association recognized this cat breed in 1984.
As a medium-sized cat, with a firm, muscular body, your Tonkinese will weigh between 2.5 – 6kg.The head is slightly rounded with fairly broad ears that are set wide apart.
The eyes are bigger than the classic Oriental shape and can range from green to light blue in color.
The coat of the Tonkinese is short and close-lying and is soft and silky to touch.  The mask, the ears, legs and tail are all  darker than the body.
The Tonkinese cat breed is recognized by the Cat Fanciers' Association in 4 base colors -  medium brown, champagne, blue and and platinum.
The Tonkinese cat, with one of its parents being the Siamese cat, just loves giving and receiving attention.
Active and social, he is an excellent choice for families with children and even other pets.  They love just seeking out their human companions and lying down where they are.
They’re intelligent felines these, and you can even teach them some simple commands. Because of them being so very social, they don’t like to be left on their own – certainly not for the whole day while you go off to work.
Tonkinese cats can be active and highly entertaining with their antics. When you laugh at them, they are encouraged to perform more.
They are affectionate and intelligent cats and you will need to have toys for him. When he isn't playing, he likes nothing more than to be petted and pampered by his human family.
Your Tonkinese will get on well with children and other pets, and he generally makes a splendid pet for those who care well for him.
Tonkinese are generally healthy cats but they can be prone to eye problems such as gingvitis.
Because they are part of the Siamese family, they can succumb to some of the diseases that the Siamese battles with. These are asthma/bronchial disease, heart defects, lymphoma, and crossed eyes.
Lymphoma is linked with feline leukemia, a viral infection, and thankfully, more cats are being vaccinated for feline leukemia, so fortunately it is becoming less common.
Intestinal lymphoma affects the gastrointestinal tract and is the most common type of lymphoma in cats, being more common in older cats. Affected cats can suffer with weight loss, vomiting, and diarrhea.  Get your cat to the vet as diagnosing this lymphoma will require the vet finding cancerous cells on microscopic examination.
The Tonkinese has a short coat so a brush once a week will be sufficient for this cat as it just helps to brush away dust and loose hairs.
He will need a litter box and this will need to be kept spotlessly clean. Use a small rake, available from your vet or local pet shop, to rake up the cat’s feces.
When you first bring your Tonkinese cat home, you will at least need some of the basics to ensure his wellbeing. These are -
sleeping equipment – baskets or cushions in a nice warm, dry place for your cat.
A cat tree for climbing and a scratching post. Cats are natural scratchers so you can’t get angry with your cat for scratching. Instead, invest in a scratching post so that he doesn’t use your furniture to scratch on.
Food is such an important part of caring for a cat. The best type of cat food can ensure your cat has a strong immune system that allows him to not succumb to every cat sickness there is.
Cats are carnivores so ensure he has food high in meat. Sometimes it can be costly, but try to provide your cat with the best, most high-quality cat foods there are to ensure his good health and happiness.
A cat needs a constant supply of fresh, cool water night and day. The water should be changed regularly.
--------------------------------------------------
