Image Credit: Imaza Images, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 30, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Tortoiseshell cats are cats with beautiful and unique bi-colored, sometimes tri-colored, coats that are often black and orange or brown and gold, sometimes with white sprinkled in. Most tortoiseshell cats are female, and it’s extremely rare to find a male tortoiseshell cat, as the coat color gene is found in the X chromosome. Since female cats have two X chromosomes, they can inherit a different color from each chromosome, which results in the tortoiseshell pattern.
Since the term “tortoiseshell” refers to a specific coat marking that’s caused by chromosomes and genetic makeup, almost any breed can have a tortoiseshell coat1. Here are the most well-known cat breeds that you can find with the tortoiseshell markings.

Almost any cat breed with fur can be a tortoiseshell cat. However, please keep in mind that not all tortoiseshell cats may be accepted for cat registries and cat shows, as many registries have stringent coat color requirements for such purposes. Nonetheless, the tortoiseshell pattern can be found in many breeds.
The American Shorthair is a common and popular cat breed. They’re often easygoing and suitable for inexperienced cat owners. These cats are known to be fairly adaptable and well-balanced. They’re independent, but they also tend to develop strong loyalty ties to one or two people in their families. They’re playful, but they’re not needy and won’t constantly demand your attention.
Although American Shorthairs are usually quiet, they’re not so independent that they won’t interact with you. They enjoy being around their families and don’t have a hard time living with other cats and pets.
British Shorthairs are known to be fiercely loyal and selective with their attention. While they’re affectionate to their family members, they may take a good amount of time to warm up to new people. The British Shorthair is the type of cat that will be present and playful when they’re just with their family. However, they may prefer to hide or remain out of sight if guests are in the home.
British Shorthairs are medium-energy cats. So, they’ll enjoy playing with you, but they aren’t often very demanding of your attention. They make pleasant companions that simply enjoy being in the same room as their family members.
Burmese cats are known for their intelligence and sociability. Some can have dog-like personalities and enjoy playing and learning tricks. Burmese cats are also curious and confident, and many owners have had success with having them adjust well to living with other cats and dogs.
Since they’re pretty social, they don’t do well being by themselves for too long. They can usually be found waiting by the door when their owners come home and will follow them from room to room. They’re also not known to be shy around strangers. Their curiosity often gets the best of them, and they’ll often end up engaging and playing with any new people they meet.
Cornish Rexes have a distinct appearance and unique coats. While most cat breeds have three layers in their coats, Cornish Rexes have a single layer of soft curly hair. Since they don’t have as much hair as most other cat breeds, they’re often found seeking warmth and often appreciate a heating pad, hot water bottle, or wearing a sweater.
Cornish Rexes have playful and fun personalities and are intelligent and easy to train. They’re usually sociable and like being around people, and they can learn to live with many other different kinds of pets.
Japanese Bobtails have playful and loving personalities, and they enjoy being around people. They’re highly intelligent and will appreciate playing games and engaging in various enrichment activities that encourage them to use their brains.
These cats are also often good with children and can learn to live harmoniously with other cats and pets. They can either have long or short coats, and both types of Japanese Bobtails are capable of having tortoiseshell patterns.
Maine Coons are known as the gentle giants of the cat world. They’re a confident and independent breed while also being affectionate with their families and patient with children. Maine Coons are highly intelligent and can be playful, but they’re also easygoing and adaptable. These traits make them wonderful companions for first-time cat owners. It’s just important to keep in mind that they can grow to become quite large. So, it’s important to adjust your living space and ensure that they have enough room to exercise and move around.
Persians are loyal cats who are highly docile and affectionate with their families. However, they may choose to shy away from strangers and act more aloof around them. They’re a bit selective with their trust, and it can take some time for them to warm up to people.
Persians are usually calm and quiet, but they do have spurts of playful energy throughout the day. These cats are known to be lap cats that would love nothing more than to sit on you or near you and eventually take a nap.
The Ragamuffin is a large cat breed, and they can grow to weigh up to 20 pounds. They’re gentle and easygoing and tend to have a lot of patience around children. These cats tend to be social, and while they may not want to be in the middle of the action, they still enjoy being around people. They’re highly adaptable and are a good breed to consider if you have other pets in the home.
Scottish Folds are most known for the unique shape of their ears. They’re pretty rare, so it’s an extra treat to see one with a tortoiseshell coat.
These cats love being around people, but they’re not very demanding of attention. They’ll love cuddling and receiving pets, but they’ll also be perfectly content just being in the same room as you while you work. Scottish Folds are adaptable; they usually get along with other pets and are patient with children.
While Siamese cats are most known for their colorpoint coat markings, you can still find some with tortoiseshell patterns. These cats are known to have bright personalities and love being the center of attention. They’re usually playful and vocal with their families, but they can be a little shy and reserved around strangers. It can take them some time to warm up to new people, but once they do, their playful and entertaining personalities will inevitably emerge.

Many wonderful cat breeds can have tortoiseshell coats. This beautiful coat pattern isn’t uncommon, so you can easily find tortoiseshell cats in animal rescues and adoption centers that are ready to be adopted.
Since there are many different kinds of tortoiseshell cats, make sure to do research on specific cat breeds before bringing one home. Finding a cat that matches your lifestyle will ensure that both you and your new cat can live harmoniously and share many happy memories together.
You might also like:
Featured Image Credit: Imaza Images, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Jessica is a freelance writer who spends most of her day researching and writing while her fluffy Cavapoo, Nora, naps beside her. She loves and appreciates pets and animals because there’s so much to learn from them, and they do so much for people. As a dog owner, she understands the special connection that pet owners form with their pets. She loves sharing helpful information that people can use to better understand their pets. When she’s not writing, you can find her walking dogs, tending to her plant babies, or drinking her nth cup of coffee.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Cat Breeds

Cats are acknowledged for having reputable characters, which can vary from playful and devoted to unfriendly and independent.
There are many varieties of cat breeds and lots of different colors. One coloring is the tortoiseshell, and felines with this kind of fur are recognized as tortoiseshell cats.
The term “tortoiseshell” was derived from the mishmash of different fur colors which resemble a tortoise’s shell. It is important to note that tortoiseshell cats aren’t recognized as a type of breed; the name merely denotes the color of the cat’s coat.
Also Read: Tortoiseshell Vs Calico Cats: What’s The Difference Between Them?
The lifespan of tortoiseshell cats can vary based on their living conditions and whether they are spayed or neutered. Indoor tortoiseshell cats, protected from outdoor risks, typically live 12 to 20 years or more. On the other hand, outdoor tortoiseshell cats face more hazards, leading to shorter lifespans, generally ranging from 5 to 10 years. Spaying or neutering contributes to overall health, and altered tortoiseshell cats often enjoy longer and healthier lives compared to their unaltered counterparts.
Tortoiseshell cats are known to be extremely intelligent.
It is known that no two tortoiseshell cats exhibit the exact similar personalities, or “tortitude.” After verifying with hundreds of “tortie” (short for tortoiseshell) cat humans, it can be concluded that this type of cat actually has a wide array of personality characteristics;
Those among us who like torties accept their exceptional personalities. It is essential to know that every kitten, irrespective of their coat coloring, is an individual.
Not every cat will show the characteristics attributed to these attractively colored felines, but the majority seem to fulfill their reputation. As far as we’re concerned, tortitude is real.
Tortoiseshell cats, characterized by a distinctive mix of colors in their coat, are not rare overall, but the pattern is more commonly found in females. This is due to the genetic association with the X chromosome.
Male tortoiseshell cats are relatively rare and typically have an extra X chromosome (XXY), a condition known as Klinefelter syndrome.
Tortoiseshell cats have bicolored coats with patches of various shades of orange and black.
What distinguishes a tortie from a torbie (tabby tortoiseshell) cat is that the true tortie has the color black as its primary coloring.
We know, it can get awfully confusing sometimes, and the fact that torbies are used to be called reverse torties makes it even more confusing.
If a cat has any white in their coloring, even if they have a mixture of colors all over (black, brown, tan, red, amber, chocolate, cinnamon, etc.) they are referred to as a calico cat.
Calico cats will often have a lot of colors in their fur, especially on their backs or on their top side, and the white streak will often be on the belly. So if you see a tortie with a white belly, it’s most probably a calico.
Tama, the feline from the Japanese Kishi train station, is a well-known calico. She gained her fame by being appointed to a station master position in 2007, and was rewarded with cat food.
Her presence at the station boosted the station’s popularity, which significantly contributed to the locals. She happened to be a celebrated and much-beloved part of the station, until her death in 2015.
Tortoiseshell cats have varied personalities just like cats with other coat types and patterns.
Many people believe that there are steady guidelines to what a cat’s personality and behavior will be like, but that is not necessarily always the case. Lots of myths exist, attributing certain characteristics to certain breeds of cats.
Certain types of cats do have reputations for being a certain way personality-wise, but individual character will vary from cat to cat.
Tortoiseshell cats are a whole lot like people in a lot of ways. There are broad strokes of personalities, but every individual will be unique. That’s probably why we bond so well with our cats, they remind us of ourselves in some ways.
The average lifespan of a tortoiseshell cat is 10 to 15 years. Photo by Andy Holmes on Unsplash.
In general, tortoiseshell cats are thought to be very opinionated creatures, and somewhat aloof, going about their lives as if they were above everything.
They tend to be strong-willed cats, unpredictable, and independent. Real “cat’s cats,” if you will. But, as mentioned above, this is just a broad guideline and will not always hold completely true. All cats will have their own inherent traits.
These type of cats are located all around the world. Consequently, many humans own Tortoiseshell cats or know someone who does.
However, there are several very thrilling facts about those cats that most people are not aware of. The uniqueness of these cats extends a long way beyond their shade.
Many humans simply do not realize how particular and special a tortoiseshell cat can be.
Have a tortoiseshell cat at home? Tell us all about what makes her so special in a comment below!
Much like calico cats, tortoiseshells are for the most part female. Male tortoiseshells are extremely rare.
Tortoiseshell Cats don't possess any special coat qualities that set them apart from others, but they do produce less Fel d1.
There no need to buy a tortoiseshell cat. You can adopt one at your local pet shelter or rescue group.
They're really not, tortoiseshell cats are extremely kind, friendly and affectionate
Only 1 in every 3000 Tortoiseshell felines is male. The reason for this astounding dominance of female Tortoiseshell cats is genetic
We never wanted a cat. We always had a parrot. It  died   at age of 44,  2 years later this kitten shows up. We thought it was a neighbourgs until  Fall and snow came. The owners were outed out  when i posted her photo ,but  owners claimed kitten dissapeared  shortly after they bought it at the pet store. This cat was terrified  of people. Trapping her did not work., the owners didn’t care if they  ever got her back. We spent the winter feeding her , she lived  in a hole  hubby would clear out when  it plugged up. When temps got to below 25. Hubby picked  her by the scruff of neck as she started  to eat  n put her inside the door with food. She ate and ate then panicked to fo out , this was the beginning of our indoor interactions. She is  liking indoors, does not jump on things or a menace she had 2 winter litters in her hole. They died. Her 3rd litter she had in June in our home and we found out as she had originally  been purchased at the pet store and that  cost included spaying Happy to say her kittens have good homes. We really never intended to keep her but she took so long to be at ease with us we worry a set back as she makes strange with people that visit . Not a,people person  yet, she will now play with us . She is going on her 3rd winter. She found her cat nip patch I had growing outside and would lay in it. Lol I transplanted  some indoors it’s growing nicely but lol she won’t touch it unless I give her  some lol she sure will linger around them  . No photo option here or else I’d share a few pics. So notourcst has no real name yet. But lol she has many aliases.
This spring brought us a pregnant black feral cat.  Much to our amazement she delivered 4 tortie females and 1 black male. They are all just so unique and beautiful.  Each one was named for their uniqueness.  Blackfoot, Lightfoot, Groucho, and Little.  Their brother is Night.  We’ve just had them all spayed and neutered so we won’t have to worry about more unwanted litters.  Their mother has also been spayed after giving birth to a second litter.  Two of which are also torties.  There are two blacks, and 2 grays one of which is a tortie.
I’m wondering how old my cat is bc we found her out in the cold and she was just a baby kitten that time so I’m trying to find out
Hello, I looove cats, they are so cool, I especially love tortoiseshell. Please send tons of cool pics of tortoiseshell cats, thx, if you can’t thats fine.
I have an 18 yro Tortie w the distinct loud purr- esp when she finds something while exploring. Her teeth and energy are fine. The only problem is she just cant get all the knots and has never liked grooming. So I take her once a year to be shaved and she loves it. I thought she seemed like she can go on a few years and now I know. I give her high protein diet w dental treats and some over 15 stews. She’s doing good and still jumps to the top of the breakfront
My rescue cat (Kitten) was black when I adopted her in 2019:   This past year her black fur has changed to brown and black with striped tail.  Is this usual?  We really love her
It’s certainly possible for a kitten’s pattern to become more apparent as they mature. Your cat sounds beautiful!
We lost our sweet tortie Bella baby yesterday after 13 years of life. She was so sweet. She would come lay with me either above my head or would nestle her body between my torso and under my arm. I held her without realizing it sometimes. She talked a lot and one day I swore she said momma! She loved sitting in our bay window watching the birds. She also fought other frequent visitor cats at our side door window. Pretty comical. She had favorite spots to sleep and she loved to rub against my pant legs when I was wearing black. She slept on my side of the bed when I was gone from the room. She could tell when you needed her and she always gave cat nudges aka kisses and loves. She had the best personality. We are heart broken and are struggling with her absence. We pray we will find another tortie in the future.
I’m so sorry for your loss, Amber. Having recently lost one of my own cats, I understand what you’re going through. It sounds like Bella loved you dearly and had a wonderful life, thanks to you.
My tortie showed up around the first of February 2022. I wouldn’t say she’s good luck since my best friend died later that year and I’ll never get over that. But that wasn’t Gremmie’s fault. When I first saw her I thought she looked like a hobgoblin because she has eyes the size of quarters and enormous ears that look like gigantic, pointed beach umbrellas. She’s a small cat so those features really stand out. However, she is slender and elegant and cute. She’s very energetic (and destructive) and her favorite way of showing affection is to butt me with her head. I named her Gremmie because gremlins are cuter than hobgoblins. I have other cats and she does present a problem–she hates my oldest cat, Kiku, and she bullies poor Kiku relentlessly. But I love Gremmie anyway, at least as much as I can.
What a perfect name! Thanks for sharing, Michele
My rescued tortie won my heart in the hospital parking lot when she followed me and raised up on her hind legs to reach for my hand with her front paws. She sat in my lap the hour and 15 minutes it takes for me to get home from work on the day I took her in. She loves to love on you (a lap/shoulder cat), and she is very vocal. She just had 2 kittens, one is a tan tabby and one is jet black. She is such a good mommy for a young cat. She got out about a month after we had her during a snow storm for 4 days and came home preggers. I am falling for her kittens.
Aww, what a heartwarming story 🙂 Thanks for sharing, Holly!
We got Callie at the SPCa. She was found in a box when just a few weeks old, She is now a few moths old. We have had cats our whole  life-I am 83 but we never met a cat like this! She plays fetch and a type pf kitten tennis-We did not teach her. She can climb walls without leaving a mark. She watches are very move and the only difficulty we have is trying to stop her from Jumping on the table LOL We say  NO which she  and lift her down but she gets right back up. She is also dangerous to our paintings when a sun beam crosses them- She does not like to be held obut will cuddle up to our feet and when we are asleep she cuddles up in the bed between us. To our delight she started to jump into the basket on our walkers. which we can zip up a sunscreen and she can go with us for a walk. She alolike her carrier which none of our other cats did. We have a harness to take her for walks but will wait until she gets all her shots and tick protection. She is very different from any cat we have ever owned and we loved them all. I read that they are vocal but she does not meow or purr which I hope the vet can explain?
Sometimes, cats will be more quiet like this due to kittenhood circumstances. Because she was abandoned early in life, she probably didn’t learn to purr or meow during the key socialization period. I love how you’ve developed an affectionate bond with her despite her quiet personality, and it sounds like she has a wonderful life with you. All the best!
So far three cats have adopted me, one from a barn and two from a rescue shelter. Until reading this article I had thought they were all tortoiseshell’s. It turns out the one who is a Mischief hence her name is a calico. So two tortoiseshell’s and a calico fabulous.
All three have and had very different personalities. Smokie as she was called before she adopted me produced two tortoiseshell’s, a black and white male and a marmalade.
She was amazing. While living in an upstairs flat she would greet me at the door as soon as the key turned. Low and behold she dragged my slippers downstairs and they would be warm from her sleeping on them. Wasn’t supposed to have animals at the flat. One day an inspector came to visit. Just before he arrived picked her up and put her under the bed with the covers down to the floor and told her to stay. Inspector left and went to get her, she was sat making dough looking at me as if to say “I’ve been a good girl, can I come out now”. She absolutely refused to go outside even when trying to force her when living in Northampton. As soon as I went back to the south coast she promptly went out, producing her litter of four. She was 18 years old the last time I saw her. Laid on my chest making dough and dribbling. Had to leave to go back to college and she went behind the telly and passed over within the hour. Many, many happy memories of her.
Both Mischief (calico) and Twilight were ill when they arrived at my forever home for them with about an acre of land 200 plus yards from the road. Thought I was going to lose them. Twilight especially. Now both are happy and healthy. Mischief was named because shortly after adopting me as her slave she robbed the kitchen. Forgot and went to bed leaving four covered chicken thighs out. In the morning came down and she could hardly move her tummy was so bloated. Two and a half thighs were gone. Mischief used to be very nervous and would cower when reaching out to stroke her. Cured that by spending many hours with her on my lap stroking and making a fuss.
Twilight got her name because she seems to be able to literally disappear right in front of you any time of the day.
Both are the local terrors of the rodent life around here. In the eight years since arriving they between them have killed somewhere around 10k mice, rats and a few rabbits. Between 3-6 per day each. Discourage them from birding with a gentle tap between the eyes and showing that I’m cross.
Thank you for sharing these sweet stories.
how alike your Jubilee and my “Puss”are in character. Puss will be 21 in December ’22 and is quite frisky still. My arm chair has been taken over by her, with her looking over my shoulder when she figures its time to take over my comfortable seat. she has a little white on 2 paws, is now on early renal food applicable to her condition. One wouldn’t think there was anything wrong with her, Puss is in charge and I’m surprised she doesn’t charge me  rent to live in HER home.
Yep!  I have one tortie in my 24 cats. When she is annoyed  by the other cats, she will bitch slap them into yesterday! It’s so funny!  I have her videos on TikTok.
She also sits like an old man when she bathes herself. Legs open and belly hanging, sitting up straight.
I never noticed until reading this that while she will let others pet her with no issues, she is attached to only one person , me, the one who bottle fed her from day 5. She come to me at night and puts her leg on me, like “hey, I’m here for my back scratches.”  So I scratch her back and she sleeps next to me all night. She is VERY smart and knows how to get what she wants!
Oh that she is..  and yes it is a wonderful furbabie family in my home we also have
1- 18 yr old, son
1 – 19yr daughter
1 – 36 yr old son
Myself & my hubby
There  is always extra teens coming and going.
I also babysit  a  7 month old baby 5 to 6 days a week.
And sometimes have all 5  of her siblings.
 3 Brothers ages 10, 6 , 4 all of whom r very energetic.
2 sister ages  13 & 6
Our home is very full and rarely quiet
But would have it any other way.
I have a tortoius shell female.Sage is 2, has 7 toes on her front feet. She is very oppionated  Loud and what she wants she takes. She hates to be held. But when she wants attention she most definitely knows how to get it. Sage is my youngest furbabie. Jazmyn is my 14 yr oldfemale tuxedo cat. She is small. I also have a 9yr old 42 lb femake boxer &  a 100 lb pit lab. And Sage is the boss.
Sounds like a great animal family, and Sage is quite the character. Cute!
I have a kitten of 3 months old that is a tortoiseshell cat. I think it’s a male, but not absolutely sure yet. He is the sweetest thing, but he acts like he knows that he’s strange looking!
My tortie is the best. Tilly’s unique personality makes her who she is. When I first got her she was only 5 weeks old the vet said. She was extremely friendly with everyone and then I don’t know what happened. She won’t let anyone near her and hisses at them. Grown men won’t even go by her. But she loves me and I am the only one can go near her. She sleeps with me every night and she f I stay up later she will pace the floor till I get in bed. She is extremely unique and special on what she does. I will wake up and she is laying on top of me and I tilt my head and she is staring right at me. Scary sometimes. : )
I’ve had 2 torties. Both beautiful, sweet, and loving females. Our first was a talker and had something to say about everything. She was very affectionate and wanted to be right next to me, my husband, or her brother at all times.  She was attached at the hip to her litter mate and when he got out of the house a few times, she would tattle on him and call to him through the window until he came back. When he died, she died soon after presumably of a broken heart. Such a sweet cat, she is greatly missed. Our current tortie has some similar traits, but is more independent. She is fine with alone time, but is frequently calling out to us when we pass by. Making sure we stop to say hello and give her a good rub. She is a great model to our younger cat, teaching her how to catch flies, etc. One interesting thing I’ve noticed with both torties – sensitive stomachs. Our first tortie vomited often and eventually acquired what I called kitty chrones disease. The vet has not found anything with our current tortie, but we are particular with her food and feeding schedule to prevent stomach upset as much as possible. Even with this issue, these girls have been my favorite cats over the years. I am a huge fan of torties and plan to adopt another when the time comes.
When our last cat passed, we went to the vet to adopt a kitten and ended up adopting 2 torties. (sisters) Can’t split up a family. One is Tazz and the other Crazzo! Very shy and skittish but curiosity got them exploring. Now there are 4 of us in a 3500 foot house with a sun-room.  We keep them in, always, to save the birds and we don’t have to give them flea and tick poison. These girls can: open drawers, turn lights off and on, jump up to at a four foot countertop. They sleep on top of our curio cabinets, (seven feet tall) they go from the small bookcase then leap to the cabinets. They take turns. They watch EVERYTHING.  One sleeps under a comforter, the other sleeps under my bed. (usually)
They love their Mom, who brought them home. (bonded) Tazz likes when I let the water trickle in the sink, she slaps at the stream and sprays it all over. They get to smell and hear the world outside the open, screened window. The Dynamic Duo are non-stop torties. If they can possibly climb there, they’re there. They never fight with each other. As you might have figured, we LOVE our girls.
We rescued our kitten out of a customers truck a year ago. She was so small and completely wild but came around very quickly.  She is so smart and full of energy like nothing I have ever seen before. I tell everyone who says they don’t like cats it’s no problem because she identifies as a dog, lol.
She comes when called, sits on command, plays fetch (and yes I’ve caught her playing fetch with me in my sleep) tries to bury toys in the couch, she is so much fun! I love bragging about the cat who traveled 21 miles as a kitten to find us and now it’s our turn to take care of her!  She is a happy, sassy, smart and trainable cat.
Hi there, I have a 13 y/o Tortie, Rosie. I adopted her when she was a baby, 4 months after I adopted my puppy, Daisy. They are both the same age so now, as Seniors, they are more accepting of each other’s presence. In the beginning, pups would torment and kitty would hide. It’s somewhat like that now but more like a game. Rosie loves her solitude as queen of my bedroom and hides out alot, making a surprise appearance every now and then. She is vocal and very sweet when she comes out of hiding. She is not a cuddler though. Doesn’t like to be handled except on her own regal terms, lol
Thank you for introducing us to Rosie, Amy!
My girl is past her expiration date according to this. She’s 16 and still going strong!
Awesome! Happy for you and your kitty. Here’s to many more wonderful years.
My girl plays fetch just like a lab would.
I have a stray tortoiseshell named Koba. I’ve been feeding her since she was a kitten. She was a frightened and angry looking kitten. If she heard me breath while she was eating, she’d scurry away and return in 30 minutes or more to finish eating. Her facial expression reminded me of the very angry laboratory chimp Koba in Rise Of The Planet Of The Apes, which is why I named her that. My guess was that somebody did something very mean to her. As she got bigger, she eventually finally sucked up to me and we’ve been great friends since. She’s now about 2 years old and she’s a happy go lucky cat with a happy face. I had her spayed and got her shots. I was hoping that she would be put up for adoption so she can have a safe indoor life, but according to the staff she’s want a good candidate for adoption. They claimed she wasn’t very friendly lol. I believe them. She only trusts me and hisses at everyone else. So I brought her back home and here she roams. I’ve been working on transitioning her toward indoor living. It’s working so far. I’d like her to eventually live with me indoors permanently. We’ll see.
I have a tortoiseshell named Rita. I think she is around 1 yr. old. Recently got her a couple of weeks ago off of a woman from craigslist. My friend drove me almost 2 hours to go pick her up. The owner I got her from was not the original, and said she thinks she was abandoned and or neglected as a kitten. As a result, she is super timid and bad with other cats. Having no other animals,  I thought this would be a good fit as it seems she could not be around other felines. I did not want a cat that would struggle being alone. I live in an apartment and with the help of scratching posts and cat trees, I have turned it into a cat haven. When I first brought her home she wouldn’t even come of the carrier I got her in. She wasn’t eating, she was terrified. After a couple of days I went to the pet store and bought the FELIWAY diffuser for $30. This made such a big difference. She went from always hiding and not eating to cuddling and talking with me every single day. She is the best cat and has essentially cured my depression and anxiety.
I love my tortoiseshell. Her name is Pahokee. We made her an indoor kitten when she was about 7-8 weeks because our neighborhood has a terrible problem with strays and “feeder breeders”. I have seen some horrible things done to the strays and ferals around here; people can be absolutely cruel to animals, it’s unbelievable. My partner and I were heading out to the grocery store one evening and she was just sitting there on our front porch with another male kitten that was older and not from the same litter. She came right up to us and the rest is history. The other cat ran away and would not dare to approach. Pahokee is incredibly intelligent, energetic, and affectionate. She adjusted to indoor life very quickly and seems so happy. She loves to look out the windows but doesn’t express much desire to get back outside, so I’m more confident now in my decision to make her an indoor cat. I was worried at first that I did the wrong thing, but I think her life is better with a real home and a person who genuinely cares about her well being. People here like to feed and see the kittens but don’t care about them anymore once they reach a certain age.
I have a calico cat and she very laid back and live kids but she don’t really care for any outsiders…she like to sit up high on things so she can look down on things like the queen she is ..
We adopted a tortie from the rescue maybe 5 years ago and she is extremely sweet. She was frightened when we were first meeting her but she settled in quickly and became queen of the castle. She is definitely high energy, playful, and can be quite demanding when she wants something (example, in the morning she’ll stand next to the bed and meow until I get up and feed her). She’s not a lap cat or a snuggle cat, but she does like being around us, loves being petted and brushed, and has a very loud purr. She got along great with our RB kitty Swanie (a very laid back tuxie). After he passed away, we adopted Austin (tabby), and Cricket had her tail in quite a twist for a while. We let her get used to him for a couple weeks by puttng up a baby gate between the bedroom and hallway. There was a lot of growling from Cricket, while Austin pretty much said hi I’m Austin! Want to play? They get along great now, some mutual grooming and wrestling, and they like hanging out together, but no snuggling. I’m sure Austin would (he is my sweet lap kitty), but that’s not in Cricket’s nature
I had a calico named puska she was the best cat she passed away at home on the 13/9/2021 she was 10 years old kidney failure I don’t think I will ever replace her she was the best maybe time will heal
Rhonda was shelter adopted at six months fostered from the Northen California wildfires. She is an amazing adventurous people loving cat. The first week she did a running leap through the banisters and sailed through the air legs outstretched over a flight of carpeted stairs. She didn’t try that again. She’s learned to use a scratching box for her nails by getting a reward for each use. Now she’ll scratch sit down and look at us for treat. Whose traing who!!  Intelligent and a delightful companion
Thanks for telling us about Rhonda, Louise. Her leap across the stairs sounds very impressive, and I love that she scratches for treats! Sounds like an amazing cat. 🙂
I have a brindled tortie at home. Her name is willow and she is just 3 months old. She is very affectionate and loves to cuddle especially just in front of your neck if you are laying down. I wake up to find her under the blanket with me as well lol. She is very playful as all kittens are and gets along great with my other kitties. Only time will tell of all of her personality traits !!
She sounds so sweet. All the best!
Hello.
Enjoyed reading about Torties but I adopted an 11 year old Calico, Lucy, from a shelter more than 1&1/2 years ago & would appreciate information about Calico’s..  She is beautiful with a beautifully kept  white stomach, black racoon markings around  both eyes, just like a real racoon& the rest a mixture of black & orange.  She has been a difficult cat with hissing & some bad bites but she is quite loving as well. & more so as we gett to know each other.  I do love her & of course don’t know about her prior years which could explain her aggression.  Would love to get your take on my Lucy who is my much loved  last puss.
Thanks.
Hello Eva, thanks for commenting! You might like our article on calico cats, published here. I hope you’ll find that it helps you to understand Lucy a little bit better!
We have 8 Torrie. Kittens and boy are they energetic
I was gifted a tortie almost 6 years ago by a neighbor in 2015. Her name is Arya. She is insane sweet super smart and severely protective of me or anything of mine our hers. This cat is my best friend. If im late home from work she is waiting at the door to scold me. Several friends have all sworn she talks. And she understands plenty of english. She is not to found of kittens but is ok with adult male cats. She loves to go for rides let me know when bed time is and what time to get up. Ive never had a cat with her intelligence. Honestly this cat saved my life id be lost with out my tortie
We adopted a litter of three, siblings found feral when they were tiny. One’s a torty. Her brothers are tabbies. They’re age eight now, indoor cats. All lean and strong and about 15 pounds. The tortoiseshell is Bolt – my wife named her that; it’s what she does anytime we opened a door we don’t want her to go through. Once she’s there, especially if she’s outside, she just sits down and wait for us to come get her. I think she enjoys the drama.
Bolt is calm, extremely affectionate – a velcro cat – curious, and very smart. She likes getting into kitchen cabinets, and quickly figured out how to defeat every child-proof latch we tried until we installed some that need a magnet to open.
We put on videos of birds and squirrels for them. There’s one with music that starts first. If we put that on, by the time the music reaches the second bar Bolt’s there. Her brothers don’t show up until they hear the birds.
We fostered kittens for a while, and Bolt was very maternal with them.
Her brothers often compete to be the alpha and take turns bullying each other – Bolt’s not interested, but every now and then one of them decides to bully her. She ignores it as long as she can, but when she gets mad she’ll chase them around the house beating the crap out of them for a good half hour. Then they don’t try picking on her for another couple of months until the memory apparently fades.
Bolt is definitely my favorite. All I can say. Her brothers are great too, but she’s unlike any other cat I’ve known.
I got my baby when she was 10 weeks old. She is an Amazing love of my life. I couldn’t have it any other way. She is my love that completes my heart.
Why isn’t the cat in the above photo (under Personality and Temperament) considered a calico?  It has a sizeable white marking on its neck and chest.  I have 5 torts and I absolutely adore them all. 🙂
Hi there! I believe that photo was added by mistake. I’ve replaced it. Thank you
My tortoiseshell is about to turn 2 years old. She is an indoor cat and hasnʻt been spayed (donʻt plan to). She is a rescue kitten and the doctor thinks she was about a week old with minimal milk from mom, maybe first day or two but I was able to nurse her back to health. Not sure if her first week impacted this but she is a tiny cat! When she is heat, she is very vocal and loves the cuddles, when she is out of heat she is less social but still visible. She definitely feels like a split personality cat LOL. She is usually ok with short travels and wonʻt clam up but I once took her on a plane and she was like a feral cat, only hissing, hiding and scratching without eating or drinking but she adjusted after a few days and was back to normal. She is super playful, gentle on the paws/scratching but likes to push the limits of gentle to pain for biting LOL. She loves when we have human company unless there are too many people 1-3 is usually fine but she absolutely hates other cats. Love her so much <3
Hello! I have a beautifully soft long hair, Tortiseshell cat name Jazzy. It’s short for Jasmine. When she first came to live with my family, she was 18 months old and very anti-social. She seemed to hate everybody and we couldn’t figure out why.  I didn’t think she could purred at all. Thanks to Jackson Galaxy’s YouTube video and online information, we have learned about Jazzy. She is a clever cat and is drawn to adult females in the family. She likes only a particular type of food and doesn’t tolerate young children at all. But other than that? If we give her- her space she wants to sit on laps and be petted and be apart of the room. She is so sweet and friendly and you know what, she does purr.
What do they eat?
Hi there! Tortoiseshell cats should eat the same food that any other cat would with variations depending on their age and individual needs. You might find this article on the best cat food helpful: https://cats.com/best-cat-food
My three year old torty only eats Sheba wet cuts.      And temptations hard food
100% dog person here, and I just inherited my aunts torti after she passed. The only reason I’m keeping the cat (that I’m allergic to) is because of how much my aunt adored her. She’s been here for a couple days now and we literally have conversations and even arguments! I’m truly amazed with how this animal communicates and how different it is from having a dog! She’s so stubborn and expressive, and while I’m still 100% dog person (and she’s not one of those “practically a dog” cats FYI) I guess I’m now a dog person with a cat! I look forward to seeing her at the end of every day and even arguing with her when she walks across my computer or hisses at my dog. Appreciated this article and the info provided because I am certainly still learning A. LOT. !
I have a tortie, she’s less than a year old.. she’s a cuddle bug but she chooses her humans. She’s very much a daddy’s girl, but when he’s not around then I’m good enough to cuddle up with lol. She’s the sweetest cat, but sometimes stubborn. I would definitely say she has a little bit of catitude sometimes. She loves other cats and dogs, and shows no fear around anyone, very confident. The only issue I am having with her at the moment is she shivers a lot, mainly when she sleeps. I’ve never had this problem before with any past cats.
I have a 15 year old Tortey. She has a thyroid and kidney issue. I know here lifespan inside, is 10 to 15 years. I hope she beats the odds. I’ve had her since She was 5 months old. Her name is Tuts. She is my heart and soul. Please send her healing energy. Thank you. DC
Thinking of you and Tuts and wishing her the best. Take care.
We have recently fostered a long hair tortie from a shelter…COVID19.  She is 10 months…beautiful.  It has only been 2 days and she is coming around.  I can see the independent nature…though only two days with us.  For one…she requires two litter boxes.  One for each number (lol).  Discovered that when the shower floor was used for #2.  So…problem solved…   A very pretty girl…
We’ve had ours 10 yrs and she still hates being picked up.  I know she trusts us implicitly as she bares her tummy and lets us rub her belly or sleeps long periods in our laps.  We just have to adjust our expectations of affection to match hers!
My cat is confuseing because her mother is a claico but her father is a tortoiseshell cat. So she has the colors black ,brown ,red ,and white.
Tortoiseshell/calico cats that are male are sterile.
It is likely that the coloring of the mother was passed onto the kitten and calico (the colors your describing) can show up in many forms like your cat!
hi so i needed to know if they all really had tummy isues cause mine does soo plz tell meh
Hey everyone i have loved reading all of these comments. I have a 10 year old calico tortie. Had her since she was lile 4 weeks old. She really is the cat love of my life. She is like a lil doggie. Very smart very strong willed very independent and aloof but so so sweet when she decides to be! I do feed her only all natural cat food but also bad treats lol. Hope she will be with me for years to come.
I have a 19 year old tortie named Asia.  She truly is so special and has so much character.  Entitlement should be her middle name lol.  She makes her own rules and I’m happy with that,  as I feel grateful to be her caretaker.  There is not one day I take for granted with her.  She is extremely manipulative and highly intelligent.  I wouldn’t change anything about her.  The best thing I ever did in my life, was adopting Asia (formally Tigger) from the SPCA when she was 9 years old.  She suits her name (Asia) so well.  I cannot believe anybody ever gave her up as she is truly incredible.
I have adopted two Torties  so far who found us and both have been very special forming quite a bond with me. As many other owners have said, they are very loyal affectionate creatures once you have their trust particularly as some can be very wary of strangers or new circumstances.  My present Tortie is very intelligent and has come to understand quite a few words.  At times, it feels more as though I have a dog as she follows me around when I ask her to come and goes to her bed when I tell her – extraordinary for a cat!!!!   Although demanding, they reward you many times over with their love if you give them what they need – affection, playtime, attention and respect!
I have a rescued  tortoise now 5 years old who has never sit in my lap, doesn’t  want to be petted, will fight  if picked up and only speaks when she wants something  specific ie fresh  food ,water ect. She is very energetic, plays by her self and dominates our marine coon.she picks the spot where she wants to be  fed, at times under the sofa or a hidden area. If we don’t follow  her instructions  she will back kick the food and refuse to eat. In spite of this I love little Patches.
We adopted a female tortie just a couple of days ago, and we totally love her. She is super energetic, exciting, fun, playful, curious and affectionate. While she is significantly smaller than our male cat, she is definitely a feisty little thing. She does not wish to follow his rules; she wants to create her own. I hope they will manage to develop a necessary bond, for they have to share the same household for the next few years.
I hope my beautiful DILUTE Tortoiseshell lives into the 19 + category of years.  She turned 14 on February 10, 2019.  For those that don’t know, a dilute tortoiseshell has a muted color combination of blue and cream, some areas look gray but the muted blue is gorgeous, especially in the sunlight!  Whereas the non dilute tortoiseshell has the mix of black and orange.  She is the sweetest and best cat I have ever had.  Smart, opinionated, loyal and a true lover of her human mom!  She has to be in the same room with me during her awake hours and sleeps with me at night a lot of the time.  She’s the cat love of my life!!
I miss my Tabbi-girl (Tabitha) she recently crossed over the ? rainbow bridge on March 8th (2019) she was turning 15 in June. She had so many vocal sounds. Not the normal mews, meows and purrs. Surprised this article never mentioned their wide vocal noises. She was my Hunter. If anything got in my apartment she was the one to get it. (Not that it happened very often and she was indoor only) also one thing I have noticed with torties is that they tend to be smaller then other cats of the same litter. She had 7 brother and sisters with only one other tortie (although her sister was a tortie and white and had with white paws) both sisters were the smallest of the litter where the other females were a bit bigger and the makes were much larger. The mother must have had a gene for
the tortieshell coloring.(although she was black) Out of her two (13 kittens) litters she had 4 tortie and whites and one true Tortishell Calico and one  calico kitten (white with patches of colors)
I love my tortie. She just turned 19!
I have a 16 year old tortishell and she is far from being playful as of matter of fact she’s my big meany girl I can only pet her for like 10 seconds ???
I adopted a Torti back in 2004 from a client who told me a mother cat showed up on her doorstep.  I wish I could show you a picture, she was absolutely gorgeous with a beautiful tan stripe all the way from the tip of her nose to her forehead with a white tuxedo chest.  She was the most skittish kitty I have ever had.  She was afraid of everything, including everyone but me.  I think that’s why I loved her so much;  I was the only person she ever really loved and trusted.  She did not purr until she was 4 years old.  She was very territorial, my bed was reserved for just the two of us.  If any other cat came for love, she wouldn’t have it!  I miss my sweet baby Chica, my beauty queen.  She passed away 11 months ago from pancreatitis at the young age of 13.  She will be in my heart and sole forever.
My tortie is the best companion and my best friend. Tiger has been with me for the past 6 years. Friendliest cat you ever met. Smart too. Torties are the best.
I had a female tortie just recently I had to put her down 🙁
we just rescued a tiny bay tortie from the neighbors old dilapidated garage The tenants had moved out.. garage has big holes in roof broken windows full of garbage. It is freezing rain/snow windy very cold / The day after Thanksgiving. we went out on our side porch for a smoke and heard loud mew mew crying coming from neighbors garage..We coaxed out this tiny ball of fluff with a bowl of milk and tiny bits of chewy dog treats as that is all we had available at the time..She was frightened and shy but I grabbed hold of her and brought her in and she now has our hearts and a nice warm home with plenty food..that was a week ago. Took her to vet yesterday..They guess she is 6 weeks. healthy so far. no sign of mom or other kittens..
I adopted my cat from the shelter and had never seen or heard of a tortoise shell cat. I tried to wash the pink off her fur  until I read about Torties . Her official name is Ugly Daisy but now I call her Daisy. She recently learned to touch my arm and kiss me for some “candy”.
i have a cat named sasha and she is 8. do you think she will live long?
We just rescued a stray tortoise shell kitten in our area. At the moment she is very timid and looks at me as I speak to her. Our neighbours are trying to trap the rest of the strays so they have shelter for winter months ahead. We already have four cats, three of them are 10 years and over but the fourth one is only 2 years old and she is a calico. We also found out that the mother of this kitten was our calico’s sister, so this ought to be interesting as our calico looked at the kitten and growled. I’m not worried as my cats do adapt to other cats. As for the kitten, she seems to want to wonder and explore, for some reason I suspect she might go in hiding in the house. So I think perhaps it is safer if I leave her in the cat carrier over night.
I have a male tortoise shell, and was surprised how rare he is! One in 3000! I feel lucky to have him! Anyway,
I have a question that I’m throwing out for anyone to answer or give an opinion on.  Like all calico males, he is sterile. The vet, however, is still suggesting that I have him neutered. She said, depending on his hormone levels, he could still display typical male cat behaviors…such as spraying, etc.  He is almost two years old, and I have witnessed none of these behaviors so far. Any opinions as to whether I should neuter him anyway?
I have a lovely Tortie we adopted from the animal shelter 16 and a half years ago. She was the scrawniest and funniest looking kitten in cage #1. She mewed and purred so we took her home and have loved ber ever since. What good luck Tortie is for us.
on september 24 2016 there was a tortishell cat outside my appartment building. i tried to find her owners, apperently they abandoned her because she had a litter of kittens. my friend and i were able to  bring the kittens to the humane society. i call her princess.  she has a moody personality. sometimes she is chatty othertimes quiet. i love her to bits. i rescued her and she rescued me,
Yes!.. at her age of 24years you are Miraculously blessed to still have her and sharing your lives together.
That sharing I miss so very much with the absence of my deceased Cat, as, well, as missing the Cat herself.
It is so important to be able to share life with someone you love;  it’s worth more than gold.
Hey idk if this has to do with being a stray/ feral cat but Chester(my cat) will refuse to let me hold him or pick him up and chooses to still let us pet it and rub under his chin… how can I gain his trust so I can pick him Up give him a bath and maybe take him to the vet (he refuses to be in a cage or anything that isn’t our porch)
We’ve had ours 10 yrs and she still hates being picked up or cuddled.  I know she trusts us implicitly as she bares her tummy and lets us rub her belly or sleeps long periods in our laps.  We just have to adjust our expectations of affection to match hers!
I have a torti and she is now 24 years old. I am so blessed to still have her in my life.
Yes you are! Never heard of a cat living that long. What are you feeding her?
“kittens with this kind of fur are recognized as Tortoiseshell tomcats”
FYI, tomcats are boy cats. As you say, torties are virtually always girls.
It’s because the genes for fur color are located on the X chromosome. Females get two X chromosomes, males only one, so males get only one fur color plus white. The exceptions are XXY, Klinefelter’s syndrome (this can happen to humans too) and chimeras, in which two cat embryos merged very early to make one kitten.
Hello, we just adopted a Tortoiseshell cat on Sunday April 8th from the local Human Society. 2 weeks ago we adopted an American Bulldog. The AB has settled great. We are wondering when the cat will. She still likes to hide everywhere. Isnt social at all. Does anyone else have a dog along with this type of cat?
Please, give her time…she is scared, as you would be if all of a sudden your in a strange place with folks you don’t know;…therefore she will hide awhile until she discovers she is safe.
Many years ago when I was younger I adopted my first Cat who was a beautiful long-haired Tortoisehell kitten.  She had so few other visible colors in her dark brunette hair that she looked almost black.  This was my first kitten ever owned.  After taking her home I simply placed a bowl of food on floor for her presuming she’d eat, but instead she refused to eat and only laid in one spot in the room.  I had a small 2/room apartment and lived alone, so at least her environment was not chaotic.  But, every day when I came home from work the food bowl remained completely untouched and fresh food offered during the evening also refused.
Regardless, I bought and served many varieties of canned cat food and even a few dry foods, still she refused to eat.
Also drank no water.
She mostly laid in one spot and continued to starve herself.
She was stoic, never hissed nor had any expression to give me a hint as to why she’s refusing food.
Finally on the 4th day of her voluntary starvation and my great pity for her I picked her up and laid her in my lap for a long siesta with me, presuming this neurotic cat was starving into death.
However,  I had not previously sought to actually hold the Cat nor be involved because I had a very busy work schedule.
And, in my youthful ignorance I just figured that as a Cat she needed no true communication because at that time like many humans I thought Cats being loners just did not need nor want the attention a dog requires.
Anyway, presuming this kitten had probably starved herself after 4/days of not eating, I laid her in my lap as I rested after a long day at the job.  After several hours she crawled onto my chest and laid there another hour or more as I slept.
Later, I got up and took some raw beef liver out of the fridge that I’d bought for her hoping the fresh “kill” smell of raw flesh  would entice her to eat, while also giving her strong nutrients especially to make up for all her starvation.
WOW!  She jumped on my legs screaming for the Liver and climbed up my legs onto my buttocks, dug her nails in screaming for the Liver.
Yeah!  I quickly got her off because those nails hurt, she gobbled up the raw beef liver.  And from that day forward she began eating and kept eating.
So I discovered the Kitten had been in a state of traumatic fear:  when I first saw the kitten in the shelter she was curled up at the back of the cage while another larger kitten was bullying her and hitting her.  So I’d actually brought a traumatized kitten into my apartment wherein her anxiety also increased because now she was in a strange place (at least she knew the residence of the cage) and with a strange human.  Also,  I had not sought any personal communication with her;  SO HER FEAR FOR HER SAFETY CONTINUED TO ACCELERATE, UNTIL I DID THE DEEP COMMUNICATION WITH HER OF LAYING HER ON MY LAP AND ALLOWED HER TO LAY ON MY CHEST WHILE I SLEPT IN THIS COMPLETE UNPROTECTED POSITION OF MYSELF,  AND THEREBY SHE THENCE KNEW SHE WAS SAFE, SHE COULD TRUST ME.
We adopted a tortoiseshell cat from the rescue center 18 months ago. She was dreadfully timid, hid most of the time. Scratched, hissed and clawed us. No way could we pick her up (she would turn to liquid and attack). So much so that the vet said there was little chance of this being much of a domestic cat (she was a stray who had lived on the city streets before being rescued). After 6 months she would let us stroke her and would play. After 9 months she was a full on house cat, coming to sit on our laps, roll over to have her tummy rubbed, and would follow us around the house. A few months ago we moved house and she was a bit nervous. The vet gave us some cat-pheromone spray and air ‘fresheners’. That helped a lot. After a few weeks she was fully settled in and is the most sociable creature you could imagine.
Please give your newcomer time. Time to earn her trust. Give her lots and lots of love. It will pay off I promise.
Thank you for saving a shelter cat, but…
I won’t get into everything, but first and foremost you are lucky that kitten even survived. At the first sign of not eating, she should have been brought to a vet, kittens seldomly survive without food and water for 4 days. And I’m not sure why you saved a cat from a shelter if you had such a busy schedule that you didn’t have the time,  as well as knowing nothing about cats.
I’m not in the habit of publicly admonishing people,  but I hope anyone reading can learn from your mistakes. Yes, your kitten survived, but at what cost? System failures begin immediately once a cat, especially a kitten, goes off food and water. You knew it had been traumatized, yet offered no hide box or area for it to feel safe, never took the time to socialize the poor thing or show it any kindness-other than removing it from certain abuse at the shelter, you simply placed it in your home and left it to continue to be afraid and alone.
This shelter you took her from obviously fails in its job vetting potential forever homes, because they should have been asking if you’ve ever had a cat or knew how to care for one.
There is so much information readily available now, it is shameful to have such ignorance about the care of these animals.
You say you were younger, but not so young that you were under 15, I gather. You worked full time and had an apartment, far from being able to claim this as a folly of youth.
I hope your poor traumatized cat did well and lived a long, happy life. As I mentioned,  you were most fortunate she even survived.
I have 2 dogs and just got a torty about a month ago..tookm@ week or two but she is berry very friendly and lays beside the dogs all the time.
Just curious if your tortie ever settled in.  I’ve had my tortie since she was 10 weeks old, she’s now 8 yrs old.  She has never come out of that ‘aloofness’.  Most visitors don’t even know we have her because she doesn’t come out of hiding.  She is not social at all, not even with my husband and I or our little Havanese dog.  She won’t let us pick her up.  She won’t sit on our laps.  All she will do is walk near our chairs close enough to pat her back and head and will cry incessantly until we do.  I sooo wish she wasn’t like this.  She is so beautiful but  sooo not much of a family pet.  I refer to her as our resident snob.
Our “Torbie” is like this. She decides when she wants company. She is very high strung. But she does love her Daddy.
I have only the torti cat. She is rather shy but now that she know me well is the most loving cat I have ever had.
When we adopted our tortie from Animal Humane, we were required to sign a contract that she would be the only pet. In the first few months, she would often hide and never made a peep.  Though she eventually became vocal, she still does not like other animals. we tested the limits with a roommate who had another cat and a small friendly dog.   Our tortie did not fare well. She started losing her hair and was nervous all the time, even aggressive/protective. As soon as the other animals  were gone, she calmed down and the hair grew back.  My cousin had a tortie that grew up with a lab.  She tolerated the dog but they were never friends.  As I’ve gotten to know others of this type, they do appear to prefer being the only pet as they are very protective and territorial, yet not overtly affectionate. Ours will sit in our lap now but still hates to be picked up or cuddled.
I have two small dogs and my cat plays with them all the time. It took a few days but she did well. Loves going outside for walks.
I had a torti, she was living outside, dont think i could call her feral cause ifed hed since birth and made her a safe bed from the ouside elements,   i bought a live trap and brought her home, it took about a month for her to calm down, she became the nicest and sweetest of all my 4 cats, she was very friendly with everyone ecspecially my ex husband
Hi there, I have a 13 y/o Tortie, Rosie. I adopted her when she was a baby, 4 months after I adopted my puppy, Daisy. They are both the same age so now, as Seniors, they are more accepting of each other’s presence. In the beginning, pups would torment and kitty would hide. It’s somewhat like that now but more like a game. Rosie loves her solitude as queen of my bedroom and hides out alot, making a surprise appearance every now and then. She is vocal and very sweet when she comes out of hiding. She is not a cuddler though. Doesn’t like to be handled except on her own regal terms, lol
Definitely give her time, but you need to work with her every day. It is rare that you can simply dump a cat into a new environment, add a new dog into the mix, and have the cat immediately adjust. Socialization is key. Go where she hides and offer pets and treats, talk to her gently and pick her up and hold her or put her on your lap often. Use brushing as a way of connecting as well. You can get teaser toys, even a laser pointer, to draw her out and get her stimulated. Even small amounts of catnip can help.
I’ve been rescuing cats for over 30 years and no two ever socialize at the same level, but if you want your new kitty to be well adjusted, you do need to put forth the time and effort…the reward is immeasurable.
Best of luck.
thanks
I have a tortie & she is very energetic (she gets these Burt’s of energy where she runs up & down the hall like a crazy person). She is also very vocal & seems to think she is a human because she wants our human food all the time. She’s a cuddle bug & durning the day she is almost always on my lap.
Mine is 17 1/2 years old, very energetic and still runs around the house. I love it! She’s so sweet. Definitely a lap cat and loves her toys. She too is very vocal.  I thank God regularly that I still have her.
Life span isn’t 10-15 yrs. My cat is 18 going on 19. Torties can live into their 20’s. All depends on lifestyle,  diet and regular vet check-ups I guess! I feed her Royal Canin for Aging Cats 12+ and good quality wet food & other healthy additions such as omega oils and dental care treats. She looks amazing, robust, has glossy fur, looks far younger than her years. I hope she lives to at least 30  cats have been known to live into their 30’s! Wow! Top quality diet & good care sure helps!
Our tortie is 23 years young & going strong!!
Jubilee (dark tortoise shell) is now 20 yes old. She is affectionate but only when she wants to be and is also very vocal. Has never had a big interest in cat toys apart from a mouse and a fish. Sometimes she drives me crazy but I wouldn’t be without her.
how alike your Jubilee and my “Puss”are in character. Puss will be 21 in December ’22 and is quite frisky still. My arm chair has been taken over by her, with her looking over my shoulder when she figures its time to take over my comfortable seat. she has a little white on 2 paws, is now on early renal food applicable to her condition. One wouldn’t think there was anything wrong with her, Puss is in charge and I’m surprised she doesn’t charge me  rent to live in HER home.
My precious Tortie crossed the rainbow bridge on February 28 almost 4 weeks ago. I miss my baby girl, she was almost 13 yrs old. I have not felt a lump in my throat for years and now I can’t get rid of the lump in my throat and pain in my heart. I love you Shaak.
Your in my thoughts and prayers! Keep in mind, she is waiting for you at The Rainbow Bridge, you’ll see her again. Keep your heart and home open to another kitten or cat that needs a home, she’ll understand and be thankful you gave a home to a cat in need.
I have a beautiful tortie..  Named “CALI” she is now preggers.. She’s a very protective cat and very feisty, yet so very lovable…
  Wish i could send a pic of her..
So sorry to hear of you loss. We just adopted a stray tortie female that is young and was dropped off at a friends home pregnant and then a few months again she got pregnant so this lady asked someone to take her and get her fixed and she offered $ to do that so we are now her caretakers. She will go to get shots and get fixed in December. How far are you located? We are elderly and if we find Gracie a good home we would consider giving her a good home because we are elderly.
I love my tortie cat it is verey scared uniqe a nd nice
I have a tortie cat and this info helped lots thanks
Thank you for the info! Helped a lot!!!!!!☺
Just so you know the life span depends on diet and lifestyle. The author is wrong to say 10-15 years life span. My cat is 18 years of age and still going strong. She’s robust healthy gets vet check-ups twice a year, eats well — Royal Canin fry food for Aging Cats & a variety of Applaws, Purina, Fancy Feast wet food every morning & evening. Dry food for grazing on throughout the day & night. Vets have said she’s in amazing condition. I expect her to live into her 20’s. She travels with me too. I’m kind of a at whisper & I keep her calm in all situations and ease her into new surroundings new experiences gently making it seem like a very natural experience.  I never leave home without her if traveling away even staying elsewhere for a day & night.
Hi had a tortoiseshell cat in the past and he was a combination of black and red. And I can confirm that he was a very energetic cat!! I miss him so much!
There is this homeless abandoned cat that I take care of, but is mixed fur that has about almost equal quantity of colors. She is fully colored with no white, what type of tortie is she?
<3 cat lover
I bet you do  sorry for your loss!
Mine is 18 going on 19yrs old.
Just so you know the life span depends on diet and lifestyle. The author is wrong to say 10-15 years life span. My cat is 18 years of age and still going strong. Looks 12! But can see some grey hairs on her front. She’s robust healthy gets vet check-ups twice a year, eats well — Royal Canin fry food for Aging Cats & a variety of Applaws, Purina, Fancy Feast wet food every morning & evening. Dry food for grazing on throughout the day & night. Vets have said she’s in amazing condition. I expect her to live into her 20’s. She travels with me too. I’m kind of a at whisper & I keep her calm in all situations and ease her into new surroundings new experiences gently making it seem like a very natural experience. I never leave home without her if traveling away even staying elsewhere for a day & night.
the author actually says indoor torties can live “12 to 20 years or more” … also the cat foods listed, from a holistic perspective, are full of incredibly unhealthy ingredients!
Cats like Elsa: whenever I go outside she can rub her head and fur
on me be case she loves me for me and I love her  just for her
I have five cats. All ‘rescues ‘ except one.
My calico cat named Tigler is definitely the most intelligent!
She ‘feels’ my mood …
When I am upset she ‘talks’ to me. Hovers about, staying close.
Also does she sees me off when I leave house, welcomes me back …
Yes!! My tortie doja cat is very energetic! but she is the most loving and clingy cat ever. sometimes instead of meowing she lets out little chirps almost, and she is very vocal! Even if she is mad she doesn’t swat at you, hiss, or nip at you or anything, she just sits there with a little attitude ☺️
--------------------------------------------------
The Happy Cat Site
All you need to find a kitten and raise a happy, healthy cat
June 29, 2023 By Melinda Story 219 Comments
The tortoiseshell cat has black and orange fur, in a mottled pattern. They look very dark at first glance, despite the flecks of lighter shading to their coat. The tortoiseshell cat isn’t a breed, but a description of a color combination. And it’s a heck of a cute one! Tortoiseshell cats are almost always female, although you can find the occasional male tortie he will normally be sterile and unable to have kittens of his own.
The tortoiseshell cat can be found in several purebred families, such as the large Maine Coon, long furred Persian and even the curly haired Cornish Rex. You can also get gorgeous mixed breed moggies with tortoiseshell fur, along with the odd unusual dilute version with muted tones.
*The products linked in this article were carefully selected by The Happy Cat Site. If you decide to purchase using the links provided, we may earn a small commission on that sale. This is at no extra cost to you.
Check out these 33 amazing tortoiseshell cat facts! Get to know the truth behind your favorite cat pattern, and find out why so many people want tortoiseshell kittens. Because there is more to the tortie cat than meets the eye.
It’s always surprised me that the tortie doesn’t get more press or screen time. They look like someone has had an incredibly creative moment with a couple of halloween themed colors.  And although they are unusual, they aren’t so rare that you wouldn’t be able to find one in a hurry.
This pattern of kitty is so remarkable that I remember each one I encounter very fondly. Famed for their sassy attitude, I’ve found them to be anything but. Charming, sweet and with an intense gaze you don’t often find in a feline.
Although people are not always aware of the differences, the tortoiseshell calico cat and the tortoiseshell are actually two different types of cat. Calico is the term used to describe a tricolored or patched coloration that includes white. In other words, the cat has a random pattern of black, orange and white patches.
Tortoiseshell cat coats have a random pattern of two colors – one based on black, and one based on red. The patches can be small, giving a ‘salt and pepper’ appearance, or they can be big and splodgy.
For a deep dive into the differences and similarities between them, check out tortoiseshell vs calico cats.
Most torties are red and black, also known as black tortoiseshells. But some have muted colors. Instead of bold and striking patches of color, their coats have softer, pastel colors. Rather than red and black, dilute tortoiseshells have orange and grey patches,  yellow and chocolate, or other subtle color variations that make torties so unique.
Just to make things a little more complicated, tortoiseshell kittens can have white bibs, tummies and paws, and still be tortoiseshell. These cats are officially described as “tortoiseshell with white trim”.
The difference between them and calico cats are that their white areas aren’t scattered over the body at random – they are neatly organised, and caused by different genes.
You heard us right! The calico or white tortoiseshell cat is the official cat of Maryland. The state cat became official on October 1, 2001. The feline shares the same color pattern as the oriole, the state’s official bird, so the calico was the obvious choice.
Many people don’t know this, but there is no tortoiseshell breed. We call them torties, and most of us know one, but they don’t form a breed. What’s going on? The tortoiseshell coloring is a variation seen in many different breeds of cat, and it is caused by simple genetics.
The variation is caused by x-linked genes and is called a mosaic expression. While it appears complicated, the term ‘expression’ means that only one x-linked gene for hair color is expressed in each cell. This results in the mixed or patched coloring depending on which gene is left “on” in each cell. Let’s explain this a little further.
Cats, like humans, have sex chromosomes. A female has two X chromosomes in each cell, which we call XX. Males have only one X chromosome and a Y chromosome, XY.
In cats, the X chromosome contains lots of other information, including instructions about coat coloring. Because female cats have two X chromosomes, they receive two sets of instructions (genes) for coat color in each cell. In tortoiseshell cats, these instructions don’t match because they’ve got one gene for orange fur and one gene for black fur.
Now it gets amazing – during an unborn kitten’s earliest development, one X chromosome in every single cell deactivates. This process is known as lyonization, and the X chromosome which deactivates is completely random in each cell. So, some skin cells retain the instruction for orange fur, and others keep the instruction for black fur. So, a tortoiseshell pattern emerges!
Because this color is linked to the X chromosome, almost all torties are female.
Are all tortoiseshell cats female? No, there are actually some male tortoiseshell felines. However, they are not very common.
Since the color pattern requires two x chromosomes, only male cats with an XX-Y gene mutation will appear to be tortoiseshell. This means that the cat can have the different color genes on each chromosome, but the male cat will have some other issues.
Male tortoiseshell cats, with XXY chromosomes, are relatively healthy in most ways and can live a long and healthy life. However, a male tortoiseshell cat is sterile due to the abnormal number and pattern of the chromosomes in the cellular DNA.
Approximately 1 in 3,000 (0.033%) of male cats have this condition, and their cells can undergo the same X-inactivation process as females. XXY males are invariably sterile and will remain rare.
The lower testosterone levels often lead to a quiet, calm, and sensitive personality, and you may just see these same characteristics in your male feline. So, a male tortoiseshell may be the gentle and loving companion you are looking for. Of course, you have to find one first!
Traditional male torties are sterile, but a relatively old study from the 1980s revealed that this is not always true. Scientists found two fertile Burmese tortoiseshell tabby cats in the United States. The cats did not have two X chromosomes, but the regular XY patterning seen in most male cats.
Researchers concluded that their tortoiseshell coloring was caused by the instability of certain genes linked to hair color. In other words, the orange hair genes randomly turned off in some cells and produced the tortoiseshell appearance.
Whether male or female, hair length is something else that owners look for. Some like cats with short hair, while other are fanatics for long haired cats. Luckily, the torti cat coats come in all lengths.
Tortoiseshell kittens come in both long and short hair varieties. Whether you want a long haired tortie kitten with a luscious coat, or a short and easy to maintain version, you’ll find the right cat to suit you.
If you searched hard you could even find a tortoiseshell Persian cat or a tortoiseshell Siamese mix. Look at your local animal rescue facilities and breeders, and you might be surprised what you can find.
If you are concerned about tortoiseshell cat health problems, then don’t worry. Since the torties are not a specific breed, there are no health issues associated directly with the cats.
However, you should be concerned about general health issues and remember that if, for example, you have a Persian torti cat, you’ll need to look out for the health problems associated with Persians. As always, when looking for a tortie, look out for the general cat health. According to an extensive Finnish study, the most common feline ailments involve the mouth, kidneys, and skin.
Again, because tortoiseshell doesn’t mean a particular breed, their lifespan can vary. If you know that your tortie belongs to a specific breed, such as a Ragdoll, American Shorthair or Cornish Rex, then look at the lifespan for that cat. If you are not sure, you can look at the average feline lifespan to determine the tortoiseshell cat lifespan.
According to a UK study that looked at the longevity and mortality of over 100,000 cats, the average lifespan was found to be 14 years. Crossbred or mixed breed cats live longer, so you do not have to go searching for a purebred if you want a lifelong companion.
According to some traditional folklore, the white, or calico tortoiseshell cat brings good luck. For this reason, the people in the United States often call them “money cats.’
Not only are torties considered good luck charms, but they may just ward off ghosts and evil spirits according to Japanese culture. In fact, the people of Japan sometimes kept these cats on their boats to protect themselves while out on the water.
Marzipan, one of the most famous torties in the world, was a white tortoiseshell cat living in Melbourne, Australia. This feline, who lived to be 21, enjoyed her life in the Astor Theatre and welcomed guests who arrived to watch movies in the cinema. She isn’t the only famous tortoiseshell cat. The Japanese went one better!
Tama, a working cat in Japan is also a white tortoiseshell tabby cat. This impressive feline was the station master for the Kishi Station on the Kishigawa Line in Kinokawa, Wakayama. Her job was to meet passengers and she was paid with cat food.
This tortoiseshell station master even wore her own hat and neck badge to signify her position. Like many of our beloved torties, she had a larger-than-life personality!
The tortoiseshell personality varies, simply because they can be from a range of breeds. As a result, they most often show the personality and temperament common to that breed.
However, many people claim that the tortie has its own unique personality that makes them very demanding. They are the divas of the feline world. For this reason, tortie lovers refer to this personality as “tortitude.” Although most studies have shown no special personality traits linked to torties, some studies and many owners disagree!
Tortitude may actually be a real thing, according to a study conducted by the University of California. According to the study, tortoiseshell and calico cat owners described their cats as stubborn and strong-willed in the vast majority of cases.
All very interesting and we are sure that many of you agree. The owners in the study also suggested that their tortie cat was full of energy and mischief.
Many people also associate high energy levels with tortoiseshell cat behavior or tortitude.
Is this true? We don’t know, but just in case, make sure that you have plenty of toys lying around. You may want to keep your feline active and happy.
Some people are confused by the term tortoiseshell, because a tortoise’s shell is often a fairly uniform dark brown or green color, with little color variation.
However, the hawksbill sea turtle boasts a much more varied shell color, with rich tones of brown and orange.Why, then, do we call these cats tortoiseshells and not turtleshells? Surprisingly, the answer lies in the world of jewelry.
Yes, you heard us right! The old fashioned ‘tortoiseshell’ jewelry wasn’t made from tortoises but from turtle shells. The term, tortoiseshell, actually comes from this jewelry, because it resembles the tortie’s coat.
Mitt brushes or grooming gloves are often useful for grooming a feisty long haired tortoiseshell cat. Perhaps she has tortitude and doesn’t like being brushed.
These gloves can help you to brush your feline with gentle strokes, and she will not even know that you are brushing her.
Sometimes, tortoiseshell cats can have tabby patterns in one or both colors. A gray tortoiseshell cat or a tortoiseshell tabby cat, called a torbie, can sometimes have a unique color pattern called mackerel.
This unique name refers to the narrow and solid stripes that run vertically down the body of a tabby. The mackerel pattern makes the feline look like a tiger cat, but the term mackerel suggests the appearance of a mackerel fish.
So, if you see this sort of pattern on a tortie, then you have a mackerel torbie. Torbies are just another wonderful tortie variation, but can you breed tortoiseshells?
If you want a specific tortoiseshell pattern, then you can breed for the pattern and color.
Color combinations do depend on genetics and they are not guaranteed, but you are much more like to see a tortoiseshell kitten if you breed with a tortoiseshell mother. Breeding a tortie with black and red males increases the chances of ending up with tortie kittens in the litter.
Red males will often produce felines with more of a red color, while black ones will often produce a black tortoiseshell cat. Talking of color – did you know that some tortoiseshell cats appear to be one color? Neither did we!
Some tortoiseshell cats look like they have a solid color, even if the mother is a tortie. If you cannot tell if your feline is a tortie kitten, then inspect the back of your cat to look for hair color variation.
There are more hair follicles on the back of a feline than anywhere else, so it may be easier to see bits of orange, black, or white in this area.
Felines, like the muted tortoiseshell cat, are sometimes referred to as brindle. Brindle is a brown, tawny, or a light hair color with streaks of other colors mixed in. Since brindle is most often used to describe the color of a dog, tortoiseshell is a more apt description. However, you might want to use the term brindle to describe the pattern of different colors in your tortoiseshell.
I think we have talked about color a lot, so for those of you still not convinced by tortoiseshells, what about their personality?
If you are looking for a specific tortoiseshell kitten personality, then you should investigate the different cat breeds. For example, Ragdoll, Persian, and Siamese cats are typically quite affectionate and make great companions.
You can then ask a breeder to let you know when a tortie kitten is born with the distinct tortoiseshell coloring. We’re almost at the end. Why don’t we take a break from cats and talk about beautiful butterflies?
The term tortoiseshell is not only used to describe jewelry and felines. There is actually a tortoiseshell butterfly as well.
The Aglais urticae is called the small tortoiseshell and features orange and black wings with yellow and black stripes on the top. A small patch of white is found on the tips of the wings. They are stunning butterflies and well worthy of the name. Talking of names, tortie owners come up with some great names for their cats.
Tortoiseshells often have unique names like Isis, Nubia, or Nefertiti.
These traditional Egyptian names are perfect for the cats, because tortoiseshells can be traced back to the Egyptians. If you have any cool tortoiseshell kitten naming ideas, let us know in the comments.
Did you know that some people in South East Asia believe that the first tortoiseshell cat had a divine origin. She emerged from the blood of a goddess born from a lotus flower.
That really is one of our favorite stories about the origins of torti cats!
Another great myth about tortie cats says that, if you dream of a tortoiseshell cat, you are destined to be lucky in love. Who knows? Maybe it will work for some of you!
One final myth, although we have no idea where it comes from, is that tortoiseshells are able to see into the future. Even better, they can pass this gift on to a child in the household. Although most of these myths probably are not true, we don’t care because we adore our tortoiseshell cats all the same!
In some cats, their nose, ear and paws are a different color from the rest of their fur. This color pattern is known as pointed. Its probably best known in the siamese cat.  Points can come in a range of different colors, from blue grey to seal, to deep chocolate. But did you know that you can also get cats with tortie points?  They include the tortie point Siamese. And they are incredibly pretty!
Ms M Till says
January 30, 2018 at 9:38 am
We have been fortunate to have had two torties who agreed to share our home.  Unfortunately our last one left for the Rainbow Bridge in 2015 aged 25 years.
Jennifer says
January 13, 2019 at 6:23 pm
I couldn’t be happier to hear that yours thrived for an amazing 25 years. My Sophia is 14 and my stomach dropped when I read here that 14 is a typical life span. She isn’t quite as spry as she once was but still full of life. And I’m curious if any of yours are big talkers?  I’ve always had cats, although she is my first tortie, and I’ve never heard so many different sounds come out of a felines mouth. I swear sometimes she even barks at me! Absolutely precious! Thank you for your comments. You’ve given me hope for many more years with my baby girl
Jay says
January 25, 2019 at 11:33 pm
We just got our torti from the shelter. She is now 6 months old and at first didn’t want anything to do with our male cat, NOW she jumps on him and the wrestle and he will hold her down and give her a bath.
Very independent, hold her on her terms. Very squeaky high pitched talker.
Her name is Camo because she blends into everything!!!
Love this kitten!!!
joe rogers says
February 8, 2019 at 5:40 pm
i have a tortie named Sophia that is 2 years old and and a rescue kitty.  She too is a big talker.  She also is always attacking my hands and is a little skittish.  Are you aware of any ways of correcting these.
carrie sinclair says
July 16, 2020 at 10:13 pm
my maggie is a tortie… i quite by accident discovered she hated smell of cedar oil… i couldn’t stop her from attacking my hands & ankels… so i rub some on in the morning… mow we can play hide & seek… chase each other… hut she won’t attack my hands & ankels… im so happy… it was quiet a priblem
Jeannie A. Johnson says
May 17, 2022 at 12:28 am
I also have a approx 2 year old torti. Her name is Maggi too. Actually it is short for Her Little Majesty. She is adorable, but it’s weird she doesn’t purr?
Roger Sargent says
May 21, 2023 at 7:42 pm
My Tortie is 10yrs old.
Her name is
Katmandu.
Great loving kitty.
So Smart.
Tana says
December 5, 2020 at 11:19 am
Sia says
June 10, 2023 at 4:45 am
I have a Dilute tortie named Cocoa. She is a sweet talker and loves love and to play. Her eyes are pale green, always dilated and have a high red sheen, I have observed behaviors in her which the vet suggests is partial blindness and suspect that’s where her jitters come from, reconciliation of the hand coming towards her and trying to decide where it’s gonna land!
Heidi says
May 10, 2021 at 11:23 pm
August of 2020 we had a stray show up that was very timid but curious, little did I know my SIL said it was a tortie cat and explained that they were rare.She had a litter of kittens (only3) we managed to save one from our puppies ( that’s a whole different story!) we gave the kitten to a niece for her birthday . Soon we had out kitty spayed and now lives being an inside cat.. I finally read up on this breed and everything about this breed is right on the money!!  We are enjoying her , even when she princes in my toes at night under the covers or decided to bite in the middle if me petting her.
Debra S Rheuark says
September 2, 2021 at 5:39 am
My dilute Tortishell came tome at three weeks old.  Her feral mother abandoned her.  Agatha Christie is nine days away from her 14th birthday.  Agatha was diagnosed with Stage 4 cancer on 01 July.  The  veterinarians who have providing care to Agatha are amazed that she is still alive, eating and drinking well, using litter box and being very feisty.
Fred Rayner says
June 17, 2021 at 5:33 am
They can live a very long time if born to a siamese mother my girl is at least 23 maybe older, she has outlived our memories of when we got her. All we can remember is we went to a reo speedwagon concert in Janis landings same night we got her and they played there a few times in the mid to late 90’s! She was a runt barely fit in your palm and had to be fed with a 10cc diabetic needle back, now she is a very fat cat who is still healthy, way to healthy, but just as pretty as she was at the last century. Those little legs have a hard time but she still manages so good luck with your may she live as long as our Mocha has.
Sherri A Coons says
January 19, 2022 at 7:43 pm
Our cat Petunia was definitely siamese somewhere in there! She was tall and slim like the siamese but what really clinched it was her “Get back here, I’m not done with you” meow! We lost her about 3 weeks ago at age 15 and still miss her! Her tortie coloring was beautiful! I wish I could post a.picture of her here! Tall, long legs, extra long tail it seems, short fur and the.prettiest tortie coloring I have seen!  We miss her dreadfully sometimes! Thankfully a kitten needed to be rescued from a local tree and we adopted him who h has taken some of the pain away! He is a Maine Coon and we love him!
Sabrina says
September 24, 2022 at 11:32 am
I’m so tickled pink to hear that with the Siamese factor added means that my gorgeous -inside and out-
 Torrie MEMEW or Mimi, will be with me many years beyond the 10 we’ve shared so far
Deborah says
March 15, 2022 at 8:31 pm
Mine is 17 and still going strong
Courtney says
March 9, 2023 at 2:32 am
Much later, February 8, 2023
Two weeks ago I lost Imari after almost 20 years–a beautiful torti and white. Her predecessor Rima, also torti and white, lived till 22, so yes, Deborah, yours should be with you for more years. Still trying to adjust–she was a wonderful cat.
Sisy says
May 5, 2022 at 6:29 am
Yes my tirties talk Say Hello ,grandma. No no no Momma out side I love you no kidding it’s crazy mime came open the door let herself out she’s having babies I just found out  ,I’m so excited althou 8 will have her fix beings she loves out side
Donna says
May 17, 2022 at 3:49 am
I have a 10-year-old Tortie, who talks nonstop! She feels the need to say ALL THE THINGS, every day. And has quite an amazing array of vocals.  My other cats, although very affectionate, don’t chat non-stop, like she does!
Erika Hernandez says
October 24, 2023 at 7:51 am
Omgoodness! I agree my son and I always say she’s more like a dog plus she fetches and snores their personality is not like no other feline. 😁
Marty says
April 23, 2024 at 12:40 am
I have a Tortoiseshell cat. She’s had her thirty first birthday this year!! Her name is Taz after the Tazmanian devil. And a little devil she has been! She is having a little problem getting around now but can still jump up on the sink to drink out of the tap… She gets on my coffee table & we have our nightly “chat”. She tells me what she wants & I get it for her. She is stubborn, & very independent. She still keeps the dog in line! I’ve had many cats but she is one in a million. I am 81 & I think she plans on out living me!!!
Tracy hewitt says
February 15, 2019 at 7:55 pm
I have always had torties my first beautiful little lady lived until the age of 25 my second sadly left us at only three due to an undiagnosed heart condition i now have my wonderful little lottie she is one year old and we call her our naughty tortie these are beautiful cats indeed my first tortie was called pickles and our second little darling was named pippa its hard to lose our faithful little furbabies
Laura says
March 24, 2022 at 1:59 am
We adopted “Pippy” from our local humane society 3 months ago. She is not nice to our sweet older kitty, but we are hoping with plenty of love, space & time she will come round. She is a playful lovebug to me & my husband. I just think she lacked socialization as a kitten. Not sure how old she is.. Maybe 8… She’s super pretty, medium length hair, long eye brows! Crazy cute..
Zoe E says
April 7, 2019 at 10:53 pm
Sweet! My family had a old, kinda mean, tort named Pebbles, she was my grandmother’s best friend, she died at 26 years old, we now have a tort named named smudge, she’s as old as me!
Laura Spence says
May 9, 2019 at 8:58 am
That’s amazing! My baby girl Izzy is the light in my life. I found her at my vet and immediately she started talking to me loudly. 5 years later she still talks and is the most loving devoted cat. She prefers me. Torti’s are a trip. She’s so different. Definitely has attitude and never backs down against the other animals. She is tiny with long legs and a half face. I can’t imagine my life without her
JACQUELINE GARNER says
November 19, 2019 at 1:54 pm
How awesome!  I’m tickle to see another Izzy.  The name just fit for my 5 month old Torti.  She’s the sweetest, most curious cat I’ve ever had.  But such a stinker with attitude.  She loves high places, and has her own mind.  When she wants to do something there is no changing her focus, she just moves around you.
 I got a kick out of her when I brought her home (rescue), when she came here I thought I’d made the biggest mistake in the world.  My Autralian Shepard (Tucker) wanted to get at her and my (Willow) hissed and growled.  About 5 days later,  Izzy was attacking Willow, and then chasing the dog around the house.  She took over quick.  Now she’s best friends with Tucker.  She just plops right down by him, rolls over and he’ll lick her.  She and Willow are still working on it.  Wishing a long life for your Izzy!
Izzy says
May 1, 2020 at 1:32 am
Izzy is my nickname. i am happy to hear to hear that this name is used with cats and some dogs. I own a female torieshell cay. My son named her SHelly. She is my 1st tortieshell and hopefully not my last. Her mother was a siamese. She will be 1 year old in May. I also have a grey boy cat. His name is Sporran. A sporran is the man purse on a mans kilt.
Thanks for sharing.
Lisa says
July 20, 2020 at 6:11 pm
How cute. My daughter adopted a torrid name Iddles from the humane society. She was a companion cat to an older gentleman.  She is such a joy. Everyone that meets her loves her
Catherine Davino says
March 6, 2020 at 10:58 pm
My beautiful  tortie is called  Tigerlily. ..I’ve  had her since a kitten when my youngest  daughter  rescued her from under a car at her fiancée’s home nearly nine years ago. She is feisty…very possessive  of me and lovves to be entertained! Everyone that meets her falls in love with her..she is very sociable! She is my constant  companion.
Juliette Fister says
November 13, 2020 at 10:15 pm
My torrie is named Spice. I rescued her mother and siblings over 8 years ago. Never having a torrie I kept her and am so happy I did.  She is affectionate, playful and very attached to me. The interesting thing about her is that she is starting to turn white in the face, paws and tail.
Shirley says
May 15, 2020 at 2:56 am
My Manx tortoise kitty Taffy lived to be 19 years of age.  She was very active right up until the morning she lost her life!
Marci Sahmidt says
October 15, 2020 at 3:39 am
I saw my beautiful girl in a cage on adoption day at the pet shop… it was love at first sight and I held my breath until i could get close enough to take her in my arms…she buried her face ( that lovely tortie face)in my hand and purred loudly! That was it! 2 minutes! I shouted “ this is my cat”!!!! I held my breath until the paperwork was done. Amen! She had an Egyptian name but, for some reason, I looked at her and called her Lucy! So, Lucy it is! Quiet, gentle, affectionate and sweet. Her”brother” is a magnificent, beautiful black Bombay. She puts up with him😻
Lynn Deloyd says
January 5, 2021 at 5:18 pm
I adopted my first tortie, she’s 6 months old, I too named her Lucy. She’s so curious, confident, and bossy. She wrestles with my chihuahua, Chica, and will grab Chica’s leash in her mouth and walk her, she hides around corners waiting to ambush Chica, sneak attacks her, runs and jumps on Chica’s back, wrapping her arms around her neck, and rides her til she falls off. I taught her no biting, I never let her use my hands as toys. She trained me that when she’s hungry she’ll jump up and bite my arm like a sniper to ask for food. She is a real character! She isn’t very vocal. She’s super affectionate, on her terms of course.
Sharon says
January 10, 2021 at 10:51 pm
I just adopted.   8 yo Torbie with white belly and paws. She is gorgeous and very calm and loving. She was in a shelter for 9 months. The minute I put my hand in the cage she put her face in it and that was it. She is mine. Her name is Peyton. She has gorgeous black and red body with white. She has the tabby stripes in her back that is red and black. Very pretty and loving cat.
Brenda says
May 12, 2022 at 11:46 pm
I had a beautiful torti named Lucy too. She’s the most affectionate cat I’ve had. She is missing. She’s been gone about 2weeks and I’m devistated. I’ve put up posters with rewards and talked to people all around. I miss her so much. She is the. Princess in this house. I have 2e kitties and 2dogs and she does well with all of them.
Melissa says
July 23, 2021 at 10:02 pm
My first tort her name was Pumpkin at almost 10 yrs old i had to surender her unfortunately she got hurt outside and her leg got infected but i didnt know right away because he was hiding under a neighbors house. By the time i new about it her leg needed to be amputated and i didnt have the money to pay for it i didnt even have a car because it was totaled after hitting a dear and was staying at my in laws so i could get back and forth to work so a friend had to surender her for me. My second one Chole went missing but I own her daughter Autumn and I have a duluted one I named Cloud all were very loving and affectionate
 well pumpkin was after she warmed up to me but it did take a long time due to the first 4 to 5 months of her life before me.
Mikaelah beamer says
September 20, 2021 at 11:18 pm
I surprisingly found my tortie in my mothers driveway she is now between 5-6 months of age and we chose  Luna-mia
Kirsten says
April 3, 2022 at 7:27 am
I just got my first Torrie in November from the shelter. Tortitude is a real thing. My little girl is such a diva a talker and has so much energy. I named her Kameko. It fits. She is so special but watch out…I think she’s in charge not me!
Karen says
January 9, 2023 at 2:08 pm
I am unsure how old my baby girl is as she was a rescue cat.  I have had her for 6 years now and she is my Princess and defo a Diva!!!  Her name is Loopy because she is crackers!!!  She is chocolate brown and orange and beautiful ❤️❤️❤️
Ronnie says
January 30, 2018 at 8:57 pm
My tortie passed away at 21 years and my parents was 24 when she went over the rainbow bridge.
Debbie says
January 30, 2018 at 9:07 pm
I have 2torties and a calico all very high energy and very mischievous ?
Caro says
January 30, 2018 at 10:26 pm
My beautiful Coco was a tortie. I saw her at 2 weeks old at the rspca. I’d gone to  ‘just visit’. Whilst talking to the receptionist I could hear her squeaking from a box. The more I talked the louder her squeak until she popped her head out of the box. Love at first sight. They didn’t think she would survive being so young without her mother.  We had the most wonderful 21 years together. Sadly I lost her in November. I’m so totally heartbroken.
Sara says
February 22, 2018 at 8:53 pm
aw that is the cutest story I’ve heard!  I too have a tortie named Coco! She is about to turn 3 this year.  I agree, for me and her, it was love at first sight too.
I am sorry to hear about your loss.  That is wonderful that you had her for 21 happy years!
Winifred Richardson says
May 22, 2018 at 3:28 pm
I have a sweet girl names Coco too!  I adopted her this past January from Petsmart.  She’s 5 years old.  Quite a character, I’ve never had a Tortie before and she is a total lap cat and follows me around like a dog. Love her to bits!
Donna Gibbs says
November 4, 2019 at 4:30 pm
We have a tourti.  Her name is Trouble.  We found her under a bush in our front yard.  We thought it was a bird chirping.  She was about 10 days old.  We love her even though she can be a bit much.  But who wouldn’t without a mother.  We couldn’t live without her!
Kim Pettigrass says
January 31, 2018 at 2:18 am
I have 2 torties. A mother & daughter. They r the light if my life. The baby is crazy & the mom is real laid back.  Complete opposites!
Faith says
February 1, 2018 at 11:41 pm
My tortise shell October lived over 17 years, my other one, Neo, is 16 and still going strong
Gloria says
September 16, 2022 at 6:33 pm
my Tortie is a little over 15. Her name is Gracie.She was advertised on our Neighborhood Watch program on Computer…to give away..Seems the owner was a lady that had to be put in a nursing home..and her adult children already had three cats, and the mom had three of which I got the Tortie..They brought her over to my house…with the carrier..they could not keep her either.
First thing I did was take her to my vet and have her checked over..That was a big cost as she had a very serious UTI…She also has a little kidney infection. So she gets special crunchies and wet canned food, and also her treats are special..So far, not counting the foodies, she cost me over 1200 bucks to get her nice and well…AND………….it was worth it..I can’t imagine the pain that little girl went through all the time not being taken to the vet..I have her records and she was born in 2007. The records show she got spayed and had the first shots..later she got chipped..So at least she is chipped..The records show no more vet visits all these years…that are written down, that is..Anyway…I already have three cats..they are from the same family and also they are chipped, neutered two and spayed the female. They are ten years old..The two big males are mad I have Gracie and refuse to come into the house except to look around and hiss and want out again..ha..I am really upset about that as they USED to come in during the evening and get on my lap to be brushed, but no more..I have to go outside on the deck where they are and give them a brushing and feed them. They will change their minds, I hope, in the cold weather..the thing is, tho, the one cat, sprays in a few places when he is upset and in the house so I have to put down things to catch it on. Luckily, I do not have much company, and can have the cardboard up with little blankets on it to catch the urine before it rolls down onto my rug..ha ha It does not snow here much lots of rain…I have a nice covered shed they can sleep in as I am going to make a nice warm place for them if they refuse to come in..we shall see…thank you, glo
L ryallthurlow says
February 2, 2018 at 8:58 am
Our naught tortie is just a wonder to us! Pure mischief wrapped up in a multitude of lovely colours.. she has a complete half & half coloured face, very unique facial markings..
Marge Pfeiffer says
February 3, 2018 at 7:55 pm
My cat is named Miss Phantom and her nickname is Miss P.  Her face looks as though someone put a ruler in center and divided it.  She is eight years old.m
Miriam says
February 4, 2018 at 7:45 am
I love tortoiseshell cats.  My fav is a Russian blue tortoise name Julia which I found on Instagram.  She is so beautiful and does have tortitude.  I do have my own tortoiseshell cat which is a saimese mix.  I found her at the animal shelter and needed a cat to control the mice problem. I fell in love with her since and she is a constant comfort for me.  So special with lots of tortitude.
Gisela says
October 2, 2018 at 3:42 pm
Hi! And did she? Help you with the mice problem. Finding ourselves in the same situation! Would really appreciate your response. Thanks!
JACQUELINE GARNER says
November 19, 2019 at 2:02 pm
My cat is 5 months old and can sit near our refrigerator for hours.  She either hears the water line to the icemaker and thinks its a mouse, or we have a mouse or chipmunk.  A chipmonk was seen in the garage, so I’m not sure.  She is fast too.  My other cat could care less and she is an all white American cat.
Lisa says
February 11, 2018 at 4:00 am
We have two tortie sisters, Minnie and Ava. They are both very affectionate and laid back. Maybe a little tortitude now and then, but so sweet and cuddly most of the time. They will be three years old in July. They also have two step sisters, Ember and Luna (short for lunatic). Ember( 3 years old) is a Tabby and Luna (6 months old) is an energetic and fiesty black cat with some stray white hairs throughout. We love them all so much.
Mary Jo says
February 15, 2018 at 4:12 pm
We have a tiny little tortie named Wendy. She is in charge of 3 other cats and 2 Newfoundlands. She has no fear. I love this little girl. Her face is flat and the coloring splits across it. I think she’s going to be one of those tiny cats.
Tami says
March 3, 2018 at 2:39 am
We just adopted a female tortie 4 years old. We love her! Follows us everywhere and so loving! She’s a great addition to our family.
Fiona Sandilands says
March 5, 2018 at 12:26 am
I have a lovely tortoiseshell calico called Puzzle.  She doesn’t do much except sleep and eat but she is so beautiful and affectionate it is a joy to have her around.  Sometime she flares up and even threatens to bite me if she is stroked where she doesn’t want to be.
Tiff says
March 5, 2018 at 1:33 am
My McKenzie (calico) crossed the rainbow bridge this yr. Now we have Izzy who is a tortie 3 monthes old. So entertaining and full of energy. She has cuddly moments too. We love her!!!
Shelia says
March 10, 2018 at 2:32 am
My husband and I adopted our beautiful tortishell named Giya from a shelter a year and a half ago She is 3yrs old and is very special,and spoiled rotten. She has been the best cat since we had her. She is a indoor cat. We love her very much.
Karen Knox says
March 13, 2018 at 4:30 am
I adopted my Luna who is a tortoise shell kitty from a friend. She was 9 years old and I loved her immediately. She’s been with me almost 4 years and full of spunk. She definitely rules the roost!
Foxy says
March 15, 2018 at 12:04 am
My tortie name is Sophia !! She is my first cat… She picked me @ the animal shelter ..She was 7 months. Now, 2 1/2 yrs. later.  She is my furry soulmate. I just love her. I  would not know life without her ..She is super unique in every way …
Kelly says
March 17, 2018 at 4:24 am
My Tortie is COOKIE, and when I saw her on the spca website I fell in love instantly and when I went to adopt her we were fast friends. She definitely has tortitude but is so loving and affectionate. I constantly say she is the best baby ever!
SweetPea says
March 19, 2018 at 3:49 pm
I’ve had 3 Tortie’s all who have had their own very special & unique personality. The 1st 2 Terra & Harley lived long lives. The 1 I have now Joy Anne is 8 years old & was named Joy because she is such a happy playful kitty! All of them have had personalities where they were into everything. Meaning even more so than other  cat breeds I’ve owned. 2 of my Tortie’s have also been tempted even when older to eat anything they find on the floor! Rubber bands, ribbon, paper, caps, you name it! So I try to make sure nothing that falls stays on the floor if its not kitty friendly.
Linda Metcalfe says
March 20, 2018 at 12:58 am
My tortie Trouble is 13 yrs old. She talks to us every night as she carries her toy mouse into the bedroom and drops it by the bed. I can pick up that toy and put it in the toy basket and she will find it. ❤️❤️❤️
Kitty Cat says
December 3, 2019 at 12:27 pm
My Tortie CleoCatra  (has orange coloring on the left side of her face and black coloring on the right side of her face) also makes her “hunting” sounds to announce she is delivering to me her ‘mousie’ or ball and drops it, to then hear the praises of what a wonderful gift she has brought me. She also likes to lead me down the hallway in the morning from the bedroom as if she is directing me and showing the way, and then always flips over onto her back exposing her belly at the same exact spot every day. She races to get in place every morning for this ritual. She has three other cats in the household and she can hold her own if needs to be. She loves to be picked up and held and sleeps next to me every night. She has also occasionally appeared to be fetching the ball as when threw it, she would bring it part way back again.
Nancy Mabe says
August 17, 2020 at 4:08 am
I lost my best friend, my little tortie a month ago. She was 20 yrs old. Her name was Darla. We shared so much together. Towards the end she hardly let me out of her sight. This worked well because I’m retired and live alone. This little angel was so sweet. I miss her terribly.
Kathy says
January 24, 2021 at 3:04 am
I lost my torti less than 2 weeks ago.  She was 20.  Her birthday was May6  I miss her so  much.
LaTrelle Pevey says
March 25, 2018 at 2:19 pm
My Shorkie breed dog and We just adopted a Torkie. He is 21 mo and she is 3 yrs. they both weigh 7 lbs and she is also a munchkin with short hair. Does anyone know what other breed she could be. Oh yea…big time tortitude!!! We just fell in love with her!!!
Mary says
March 28, 2018 at 6:56 pm
I currently fostering 3 calicos and a tortie.  They are sweet energetic.  Their mother belongs to a neighbor who no longer wants her. The mother brought her four babies to my front door nearly three weeks ago as feral kittens.  They are now nearly ready for adoption.
Ms Debra says
April 11, 2018 at 6:45 pm
I just got a beautiful Tortie from the SPCA. I named her STARR….and she is a Beautiful STARR…. She is so sweet, affectionate and laid back. She loves to cuddley, hug, purr and talk to me.  I love her sooo much. She sleeps a lot and is very observant and inquisitive when she is awake.  Thank you for this HAPPY CAT SITE… its so encouraging and informative.
Debra Densworth says
November 6, 2018 at 10:01 pm
Hello Ms Debra, I felt compelled to let you know about my daughters beautiful Tortie for several reasons. I too am a Debra, my son adopted the Tortie as a kitten in 2012 from Animal Aid (similar to Australia’s RSPCA) for his younger sister. My daughter then named her STELLA = (STAR in Italian). Stella is also the sweetest, affectionate and laid back cat I have ever had the pleasure of meeting! Stella also loves to cuddle, hug, purr, dribble and talk. Stella is sooooo inquisitive & catches rats! YAY! My daughter, her boyfriend, my son and myself love her to the Moon and back.
Ciao Deb
Elizabeth Dobay says
April 16, 2018 at 12:37 am
I have a tortoise cat,4 years old with green eyes. very quiet, sweet, very smart. Playful, likes to make goofy out of herself.Not a lap cat but she follows me.
Not gonna say :P says
April 16, 2018 at 1:28 pm
I have the cutest tortoiseshell in the world, I’m so happy my mom convinced my dad to let the mom have kittens. I also have the most beautiful calico in the world :).
Denise Poyner says
April 17, 2018 at 4:00 am
So glad to see so many people appreciate tortoiseshell cats.  I have had the privilege of owning a blue and cream tortoiseshell named Georgia.  She became ill and I decided to euthanase her this morning.  She was remarkably intelligent, feisty, and new her own mind.  She was a good friend on rough days with an enormously empathic demeanour.  I would consider getting another tortoiseshell again, particularly a blue and cream breed.  Everyone loved her.  I had her for 17 and a half years, and I estimate she was 18 1/2 years old.   I’ll bury her at the pet cemetery in Auckland later this week.  It’s a nice place to memorialise her along with my other cat Jonty whom is already there.
Pat Walsh says
February 1, 2021 at 4:49 pm
So sorry for your loss.  Only fur baby parents can understand the heartache we experience.   May your heart heal.
Danāe says
March 10, 2021 at 6:37 am
I have rescue sisters Kiki & Coco who I got when they were kittens. Kiki is a typical calico cat white with other patches of color and Coco is very unique she is calico on the underside and the orange and black tortoiseshell  everywhere else both are very sweet and playful. They’ll be 4 in May. 🐈🐾🐈🐾
Sherri A Coons says
January 19, 2022 at 8:08 pm
Our cat Petunia was definitely siamese somewhere in there! She was tall and slim like the siamese but what really clinched it was her “Get back here, I’m not done with you” meow! We lost her about 3 weeks ago at age 15 and still miss her! Her tortie coloring was beautiful! I wish I could post a.picture of her here! Tall, long legs, extra long tail it seems, short fur and the.prettiest tortie coloring I have seen!  We miss her dreadfully sometimes! (Thankfully a kitten needed to be rescued from a local tree and we adopted him and he has helped a great.deal!) We also had another tortie named Daphne who was handicapped and had a little hind end balance problem so we nicknamed her BooBoo which stuck! Got her from a cat rescue! She had a.lot of white in neat places like a.tuxedo.cat and a bob tail. Funny as can be! She was also as stubborn as a mule and didn’t think SHE was handicapped! When we first saw her at a cat rescue she was the only one not in a cage! The rest were a.little.leery of her I think cause she did what she wanted and that was that! She and Petunia tolerated each other for the 12 1/2 years we had BooBoo! Her handicap caught up with her (apparently it was internally caused) and we lost her 2 1/2 years ago! She was MY baby and Petunia was my husband’s but our new 20lb nearly two year old Maine Coon loves us both! Although he doesn’t jump on my husbands stomach in the mornimgs. I wish he would! He is HEAVY!
Casie Hagen says
August 25, 2023 at 5:43 pm
I have a 10 week old Chocolate Tortie that found me on the 4th of July. She must have been separated from her mom during a span of week long horrible thunderstorms along with fireworks you can imagine how scared she was. I’ve only had dogs so you can imagine my shock of how quickly she was litter box trained ..literally never had any accidents and used bud day 1!! She is very playful and feisty!! Very vocal already which I love she says “Ma Ma”!! I’ve taught her to give kisses and everyone can’t get over how smart she is. She is just as obsessed with me as I am her but I think that’s bc of how we found each other she has a tad bit of separation anxiety. I swear she has to be my sweet puppy who passed just a few months ago bc they have so many of the same tendencies. She loves baths & bell rubs, plays fetch and s en crosses her paws like my Lexi did from the time she was a puppy!! She is very dark in color mixed with orange with the most beautiful hazel eyes and one white mitten.  She had an orange stripe in the middle of her forehead like Simba off the Lion King. Her name is KeeKee and she loves to go outside on her harness and leash. I think I’ve hit the kitty jackpot with this one being my first ever cat bc she is too sweet!!!
Valea Parison says
April 29, 2018 at 7:12 pm
My baby Mey-Rin is a Tortoiseshell, she is just a ball of energy! Lovable and mischievous, carrying my clothes into my mothers room in the middle of the night! 🙂
I lost my other cat Sly just last year, and Mey-Rin has been a constant, warm comfort. I wouldn’t trade her for the world.
Judy Black says
April 30, 2018 at 5:02 pm
Our family is lucky to have a long haired tortoiseshell cat named Tosca.  She is approx. 3 years old.  Tosca is very friendly and follows me around the house.  She is food motivated and will “sit” for a treat.  She loves to be brushed.  Her markings are very beautiful.  The right half of her face is mostly orange with some black and the left half of her face is black with some orange.  Her right hind leg has an orange streak on the bottom.  She had a little orange patch on her belly which has turned white during the last year.  The rest of her is totally tortoiseshell, including her ears.  She loves to carry a toy mouse in her mouth.  When she wants me to toss her toys she will sit down in front of me, walk to her toys, and then wait.  Once a month, in the evening, she runs down the hall, pushes herself off the wall to turn around, and runs back.  She gets along well with our other two female cats, a grey tabby and a black cat with a white chest patch.  All were from the humane society in our area.  We love them so much.
Dotty says
May 14, 2018 at 3:58 am
8+ years ago I went in search of a torty kitten, finally finding some at our local SPCA. They were only 4 weeks old so I picked one out, fell in love with her and had to wait 4 more weeks before we could take her home with us. At 7 weeks they called us and said they would put her down if we didn’t get her that day because she was sick. I told them not to do that we would be there in 15 minutes. We had to take her to 2 different vets before she got better. At about 2-3 years old she started to go blind. Later we found out she didn’t have any blood vessels in her eyes. Last Tues. She stopped eating and drinking, took her to the vet and he said she was dehydrated and had to stay overnight while they hydrated her. The next morning he called to tell us she was worse. He took an x-ray and it showed an enlarged heart. Even after the vet tried to save her, she could only lay there. We could feel her growing cold, so we had to make that dreaded decision to let her go. Our hearts are broken!!! She was the sweetest kitty we ever had! Heaven is a much better place today.
Hazel Pierce says
July 15, 2018 at 8:54 am
🙁
Stacey Brooker says
May 16, 2018 at 3:12 pm
I have a Mackerel Torbie and didn’t realize it until I read this article.  She was unique since day 1, born 2 days before the rest her litter.  Her siblings were black tiger tabbies and so was her dad.  Her mom was ALL black.  She was different than them all and she is so energetic.  I have never had a cat like her!  Her personality is different than all the rest as well.  And yes she does have that tortitude! I am so grateful I was able to make her mine! ?
Nancy says
May 17, 2018 at 9:04 am
The neighborhood stray adopted my husband and me 6 weeks ago.  She’s a small, 3-year-old tortie (I just read about them tonight and realized that is what she is). Her behavior and personality is 100% tortie!  She is a foot stalking, snuggle seeking, bed sleeping kitty now.
Philip Le Roux says
June 6, 2018 at 9:29 am
Our Tortie Jess, definitely has Tortitude. We got her, along with her brother Charlie, a big fat aimiable Ginger Lump from a shelter. They had both been cruelly treated at their former home. It was love at first sight for both of them.
She loves going round the estate beating up the local toughs. She evidently has small cat syndrome. When she looks in the mirror she sees a Bengal Tiger staring back!
But she is a real love-bug with humans. Very talkative, very demanding.
Aseret says
June 27, 2018 at 1:17 am
We got out torti “Molly” 15 years ago from a kill shelter, I’ll neverknow why someone turned her in as she is perfect. Funny tho. Won’t go outside but briefly and don’t even hint that you may close the door or she’ll run in. Holds grudges against the kids (won’t hurt them) but will find the most opportune moment to corner them, and I’ll hear a kid yell, “mooommmm, Molly’s has me cornered, again!” Kitty has perfect teeth at 16, vet said good genetics. Molly loves reading time and is the first to offer compassion to the kids if they have a bad day. Love love love our torti with tortitude.
Kusuma says
July 20, 2018 at 11:58 am
I have 2 Tortie Ragdolls kittens 6 months old both were born together with 3 males kittens, a Traditional Ragdolls, a solid black Ragdolls and a two color Ragdolls.They all lived happily in Jakarta Indonesia.
Cookie says
July 23, 2018 at 7:31 am
Excited to read your info on torties, as I recently discovered a stray that, until tonight, I couldn’t tell what coat it had.  Realized when “she” showed up tonight, it was a Tortie, mix of black and orange with a white bib and white right front paw.  Have been feeding her and hoping to lure her into my home eventually.  Lost my last two kitties, one last year and the other two years before that.  Wasn’t thinking of adopting just yet but she’s winning my heart.  If she wants to come home, will be the first Torrie I’ll have.  Wish me luck in my pursuit!!!!
Marlene says
August 8, 2018 at 4:30 pm
My tortoise whose name is Kailua is a farm cat that I got when she was 8 weeks old. She is now 11 years and still going strong. ?
Jane says
August 9, 2018 at 10:30 am
The feline love-of-my-life was little Minx, a tortoiseshell tabby (torbie), with glorious tortie stripes on a classic (blotched) tabby background, and very green eyes. She was tiny (3kg)but feisty (a ‘minx’ is a sassy woman), and lived to 21 years. We had a mutual adoration of each other. She kind of saved my life twice, once by reacting to toxic fireplace fumes – my housemate had brought home off-cuts from a building site (probably termite treated), and another time by making a fuss until I followed her to the bedroom where clothes had fallen against a bar radiator and were smouldering! It’s been 14 years since she passed, and I still miss her, despite having acquired several more cats – currently have 3.
Laura says
January 1, 2019 at 1:12 pm
I have a kitten that sounds like yours! I’m sorry to hear she is gone. This one I adopted is splotched with orange tabby stripes on her back legs, no tail and some white on her chest. She is the funniest little cat and so smart. Bites my fingers when hungry. Talks to us all the time and just lost her baby teeth so looks funny when she talks. What a personality this cat has.  Her name is Sansa Starfish. We adore her. But she is a nocturnal nightmare and intentionally looms for glasses of water to tip over!!!
Jennifer Pulling says
August 31, 2021 at 4:12 pm
I know Jane I lost a beautiful tabby cat to cancer when he was six. I have never forgotten him. He was there lveof my life. That was 22  years ago but there is always an ache when I think of him.
Mary Evans says
August 14, 2018 at 9:14 pm
Loved reading all the Tortie Tales.  Since reading the description of Tortie markings I am struck that my Tortie has no orange or other such color, and no blotches.  She is three shades of brown — a bit of light, mostly tan, with dark brown markings that are mostly circular stripes, starting down from the middle of her head.  She has three dark rings around her tail like a raccoon, and that tail bushes up like a bottle brush when she chases my other cat.  Definitely has Tortitude.  But her most vivid feature or features are wide dark circles as on a target, covering the whole of each of her sides; that’s one big circle each side. Only white is a little patch under her chin.  I rescued her from a nearby side street where she had shown up one day, very young and thin.  People fed her but had no intention of taking her in over the winter.  When I saw she was sleeping in the middle of the street and playing under cars I finally went over and announced I was taking her home.  Got her fixed up at the vet.  She walked with her head cocked to one side, and her right front paw turned out awkwardly.  No idea why, whether birth or accident, but that was eight years ago and she is doing fine.  I love her, and everyone is fascinated by her.  No fear of strangers and eats like a horse.  No one above mentioned a cat eating a lot, but this one eats as much as given and fast as lightning.  Named her “Peezy” for the Leaning Tower of Pisa, because of her tilted head.  Have to chuckle remembering a neighbor who commented, “Oh — you adopted that little crooked cat!”
patricia says
May 16, 2021 at 12:31 am
My long haired Tortie is Bailey. My daughter has two cats with diabetes and since Bailey is 16 pounds she is always telling me to limit any food and try to get her weight down. What does the vet say about the weight of yours and what does she eat>
Calla Lily says
August 26, 2018 at 3:10 pm
I just adopted my first tortie named Mavis & her black brother Myst 2 weeks ago. They are almost four months old. It was love at first sight on the spca website. After the passing of my tabby and my ragdoll last month it was hard not having lively cats in my home. Well, little did I know what I was getting into. Tortitude does exist!  Mavis is a firecracker. She is all over the place, eats eveything, jumps everywhere, climbs everything, super high energy, I am disbelief.  Lol. Her brother is almost as stubborn but a little more docile. He lets us hold him when she doesn’t want anyone to pick her up and hold her. With all that said, she is also a chatterbox, a kissy girl, and such a sweet cuddlebug. She snuggles so much when I am ready to sleep and she wakes me up every morning snuggling on my shoulder. I can’t wait to see how life with these two unfolds.
Michelle says
August 29, 2018 at 8:57 pm
I have a tortie named Nova. She has a mustache, it’s the cutest thing ever. She’s so sweet and super affectionate, but man, she’s a feisty little thing. I adopted her from The Cat House on the Kings and when i first saw her, I instantly fell in love with her and knew she had to come home with me. She’s my sweet Nova Kitty! 🙂
Debbie D says
September 2, 2018 at 3:52 pm
My precious tortie is named Vision.  My sister lured her and her family from  a cow pasture by feeding them twice a day. Soon, 26 of them would run from the woods every time her red car pulled into the driveway.  Some had gotten so tame that they would wander into her home through the open sliding glass door.  Vision walked right into our cat carrier one Sunday.She was named Vision because at times, you cant tell her eyes from her fur.  That was 4 years ago.  I couldn’t imagine my life without her.  A sufferer of severe depression,Vision seems to know when I need he to cuddle with me. By the way, I got to meet Vision’s beautiful mom and dad and her siblings from an older younger litters, all who were eventually trapped, fixed, and released.
Alysia says
September 3, 2018 at 4:44 pm
I have a  tortie Misty. She has her mind made up. She will work at me until she gets what she wants. She is my best friend. She puts a smile on my face everyday. She is 6 years old. I love watching her play. I am glad that I was blessed with her. My mom just loves her to. I take her for a rise everyday to see my mom. When she sees my mom she goes over to her and gives her a head but. And lays in her lap just purring like hey wear have you been. She is a special girl with her mission to make everyone smile.
Michelle says
September 25, 2018 at 3:40 pm
We have aquired our first torti. We love her so much! Full of engery and very smart. With her being four months old, that explains the high engery, lol. Her and our dog, loves to play together. And she let’s our daughter do just about anything with her. We are thrilled to her in our family.
Joelauna Castro says
September 27, 2018 at 5:05 pm
I have a torture, Her name is Andromeda, yes like the galaxy, she is my ESA, and 1yr old, she has bouts, of hyper activity, but no real aggression, she is very calm and very relaxed most of the time, she’s not  huge fan of baths, but will not use her claws on me at all during bath time,  as long as I talk to her during bath time she is calm, and responds to my questions, she has incredibly soft and shiny fur, I love her. I wish I could add a picture of her.
Kristi says
October 13, 2018 at 12:12 pm
Our little miss tortie diva is CleoCatra (although we just call her Cleo) so it cracked me up to see the thing about Egyptian names.  She has SUPER LONG fur and whiskers, and after just going through another growth spurt at almost 16 months old, I’ve been trying to figure out what type she is.  She has adorable tufts of fur sticking out of her feet and just the smallest bit of white with some black spots just under her chin, but otherwise she is all tortie colored.  She is very sweet but definitely a diva too!  She has a kinda shakey little meow when I pet her and she talks to me and she always gives me all kinds of blinky lovies.  She’s already a little bigger than her adopted tabby brother…if she’s a Maine coon and keeps growing, with that long fur…we are in for a high maintenance kitty!  But she’s so totally worth it, I wouldn’t trade her for the world!
Dorthie Cummings says
October 25, 2018 at 4:31 am
My sweet loving little Sally Jean was a little stray cat who came to our door crying very loudly one stormy night  It was freezing rain and blowing so hard. When I opened the door she ran into my house and into my heart. She lived with us 22 years.  Sally hated the cold. She was always seeking the warmest place to lay. That place was on my lap as much as she could manage.  Everyone called her my Velcro kitty. Sally and I had a special bond.  She was my kitty and I was her person.  Sally never grew to be a big cat. She only weighed only 4 1/2lbs. But she what she lacked in size she made up for with love.  She helped me finish raising my 3 children, then she helped to raise 5 of my 6 grandchildren and then 3 of my great grandchildren.    She taught them to be gentle and loving.  When Sally left us she had what we thought was a little smile on her sweet little face. She is missed every day.  But I know I will see her again some day.
Annette Nottoli says
October 31, 2018 at 11:17 am
We had 2 Torties, one was a purebred manx Smuge, the other was named Smidget. The manx had Tortitude to the Max! Smidget was a shy & gentle soul. They crossed the Rainbow Bridge over 25 yrs ago. Still miss my babies.
Annette Nottoli says
October 31, 2018 at 11:30 am
Had 2 Torties, one a purebred Manx (Smudge), the other was named Smidget. The Manx had Tortitude to the Max. The other was a shy & gentle sweetie. Both shelter babies.We found out that the Manx had been trained to fetch. Sooo sad it’s owner never looked for her. But very glad I worked at an Animal Shelter that she was brought to. She had been caught in a opossum trap. Took 2 days to calm her down, I fell in Love & took her home. That was over 25 yrs ago. Still miss my babies.
Pandora LiVecchi says
November 2, 2018 at 4:21 am
Hi I have 2 Torties Nala ( Blue/Cream) and Nadia ( Black, Gold, Red) they are so much fun.  They both have their unique personalities.  Nala is high energy and mischievous.  Nadia has to be the center of attention, is very talkative.  If its playtime Nadia lets me know with a constant Meow until I give in.?
Sarah says
November 22, 2018 at 10:21 pm
My beautiful Rockie just crosssed the Rainbow Bridge one month ago today. She was 12 years old. She had the most beautiful black and bronze and beige coloring. We found her when she was only 4 weeks old. Had to bottle feed her for several days until she learned to eat. She developed diabetes at age 7 and required 2 insulin shots a day but she was always a trooper about it. She was my constant companion and a real sweetheart.  Rest In Peace my beautiful darling.
Sabrena says
January 16, 2019 at 12:33 am
My Gizmo is my first Tortie, and likely my last cat because I can’t imagine having one after her. I initial went to a shelter to adopt a kitten, but she was perched right next to the door of the cat room, talking her sweet kitty talk to me. She was already about 10 months old at the time, and let me pick her right up. I fell in love with her immediately! She is so sweet and affectionate, follows me around like a puppy, and loves to play fetch…she was so gentle with both of my daughters when they were babies, and is still so tolerant of them loving on her in their 5 and 9 year old ways 🙂 She also has a mischievous side, most of which is tied to food…or anything she would like to pretend is food. I’ve caught her prowling the counters and table more times than I can count. Gizzie Bear is the furry love of my life, and I hope she’s around as long as a lot of these other stories have reported!!
Stephanie says
January 17, 2019 at 4:08 am
We adopted a tortoiseshell female from our local pound. We have had her 4 months now. Very mischievous and energetic. Always getting into something. Very stubborn. Her name is Aurora. We love her. She is very entertaining
Jenn says
February 12, 2019 at 5:49 am
We have to rescue tortie cats. We also have one gray and white that are oldest cat, Rachel, the queen mother of all cats in our house brought home. She basically has her own pet. Rachel is going to be 19 years old this year. The other tortie is about 5 years old and is obnoxious and funny. She likes to flop around on the floor like a little fat bear. We call her Miss Kitty lulabelle floof noodle. All three of the girls get along great. My tortillas have never been high maintenance and Rachel is the epitome of a constant lap cat. The gray and white cat that she brought home however has got major cattitude! Her name is smidge the Pidge. we feel very blessed to have all three.
steve taylor says
March 16, 2019 at 5:48 pm
I found a female tortie 4 years ago as a spry kitt. Short hair at first but now shes bloomed into a fluffy demon. She runs us all and I never knew Torties require staff. Our Tortie has many staff members loyal and devoted to her constant need for love and attention. If she is hungry no one sleeps until she has been taken care of, day or night…. Her name is ABBEY however she has affectionately been renamed to ” BABY”. She is affectionate and spends her personal time with all of us so that no one is left out of pleasing her every whim. She considerate that way. Many times we have been taken away from our daily tasks to attend to her always immediate needs. We are blessed…IF the human sole can be possessed this little bugger has and has crept her way into our hearts as its difficult to leave her behind for very long as she’s so Damn CUTE…..We adore her and we hope she will live for many many years………
Lauren says
April 2, 2019 at 3:09 am
Our housekeeper felt we needed a cat, and I wanted a good mouser to live outside, so we got Lucy when she was about 5 months old. One day I had a 3 year old patient in my office and Lucy came to the glass screen door and put a paw up and meowed. The child asked if she could come in, so I let her in not sure how she would react. Well, turns out she loves sick kids. She lets them carry her around, sometimes by one leg, she lets them put her in the baby buggy and push her around. She will let a sick child hold her for hours on their lap. Now she lives in the house and we have our first fur baby. Every morning she climbs on my husbands chest and bats his cheek, then she kisses his chin, if that doesn’t wake him up, she puts her paw in his ear. She’s a great hunter, takes down bats, butterflies and mice. Her tortoise color makes her very hard to see outside, she blends right in! She is one of the sweetest animals we have ever had, and my neighbors with tortoises all say the same thing about their disposition, sweet and gentle with kids.
Dianne Rothenbuehler says
April 23, 2019 at 12:23 am
We put down our 17 yr. old sweetheart girlie-girl Marble on Saturday.  I still can’t stop crying my eyes out.
Pippa says
April 23, 2019 at 8:37 am
I’m so sorry for your loss, my sincerest condolences.
Meer says
April 23, 2019 at 10:42 am
I had my two beloved torties Tess and Angelina. Both passed at 11 years. Tess had hcm and Angie and had cancer and was done in by convenia. I miss my sweet girls every day. Tess was the sweetest, calmest cat on the planet, she came everwhere with me, school, the beach, no carrier, she slept holding my hand each night.  Angie was a crazy tortie which shocked me- this seems more typical, lol. She was also very sweet and smart and so gorgeous with emerald green eyes. She was part siamese and talked a lot. She became very cuddly when my wizard, rescued from outside started sleeping next to me like Tess. Then they would fight to be near my face, with one on either side. Angie like Tess was a lapcat. I  never thought she would be since her mother was feral and she was a bit skittish as a kitten. Then like Tess, she became mom’s special girl,  after jumpimg up one day, she was there every night. I’d give anything to have them all back. All my 5 babies have passed now, Syb being the last, Tess being the dirst and Byron next. I am very depressed without them even though I have my baby siamese boy. It will never be the same again.
RJ says
June 6, 2019 at 3:45 am
Our beautiful girl is named Truffles, because when we got her I thought she looked like a chocolate truffle rolled in Cocoa powder!
Don says
June 7, 2019 at 10:27 pm
Our tortie is named Pywacket after a witch’s cat in 13th century England
natasha says
June 20, 2019 at 5:20 pm
i have a 4 month old tortie and called her lola
James Crawford says
June 25, 2019 at 11:33 pm
My mom and went to the local animal shelter and brought home a unique Totri kitten they named “Shelly” because; a) she was a tortoiseshell cat with a prominent black mustache, and b) she came from a shelter.  I fell in love with baby Shelly on my first visit to my parent’s house.  A purring fur ball of fun to nestled on my upper body.  At age 9, my parents went to their own rainbow bridge within a 7-month period and I brought Shelly with me on a cross-country jet to magical Newport Beach.  She took to the SunnySoCal climate and large house to explore.  She lived another 3-years and I miss her each day since. Alas, no cat for me since.
Sarah says
June 26, 2019 at 12:32 pm
I recently acquired a torti-point siamese. She is the most beautiful, loving companion. I found her on the side of the highway crying.  She was only 4 or 5 weeks when I found her. I’m assuming she followed her mother and got lost.  I have cared for her for 8 weeks now and she is simply wonderful.  She knows my schedule and aides me in getting ready for work in the mornings. In the evening she knows she gets playtime once I get house chores completed, so she helps.  After playtime, she loves to curl up on my lap with her blankie and suckle til she gets relaxed.  Then, she walks up to give me kitty nose kisses and lays down to nap.  She has definitely stolen my heart!
Kay Long says
June 26, 2019 at 1:45 pm
I got Shelby from a rescue when she was 7 months old because she had the colors of all the pets I had before her. To say she has tortitude is an apt description of her, but she also is a most smart, loving and loyal cat. She is now 9 years old and I would be lost without her.
Candice Dean says
June 30, 2019 at 1:07 am
I have a tortie that’s named Daisy because she has alot of gold. I wish I could post a pic of her after reading this she may be brindle, no white but has 4 colors. Black, orange, grey and a small patch of white under her neck.. She has had one liter and put off a calico and a tabby. She is due again any day now and I’m so excited to see what her new babies will look like. I really learned a great bit about her through reading your website, so thank you. She is like you said very compassionate and mild mannered, however a stray dog wandered up a few days ago and she really messed him up so DIVA here can be very aggressive. Poor dog I had to pull her off of him and he wasnt a small dog. Guess its pregnancy hormones and her so close to giving birth. So they can be aggressive if they are territorial as she is…lucky she is a cat not a dog or he would be in bad shape…. Thanks for the info I learned a little more about my rare little kitty!
steven says
July 9, 2019 at 10:17 pm
my tortie is called fawkes
Jmalone says
July 12, 2019 at 2:39 am
My tortie is named Evie. I bought her off of Craigslist 2 years ago, and she did have a brother with the same markings, but had a stub for the tail. He was not for sale. I’ll tell ya, she does have a personality all her own. She has been becoming more dominate towards all the other cats this past year. She does not talk that much, but when she does, its too cute. But she can have the sweetest personality as well, and purs a lot. She does have a white bandanna marking under her chin and white tipped paws like socks. I also call her my Halloween kitty.
Fionnuala says
July 21, 2019 at 9:30 pm
I just adopted a like girl torrtie! Such a lady still a baby? …So sweet and loving…GIGI a proper lady definitely special cats…furst time having a torrtie… Love them all …furry friends
Marisol says
July 25, 2019 at 5:11 am
Hi!
I have a tortie her name is Beauty! She is 18 years old and she is very healthy.  I adopted her when she was a year old, she is THE QUEEN! in my house, adopted my room and guard her place like a tigger with cubbies, she kicks out of my room my Big German Shepherd and believe or not my dog turns around and leave my room, when I call her by her name she kind of stop it but my dog knows who is in charge.  She doesn’t trust anybody but once she get to know who you are she is a sweetheart.  She sleeps with me, her best friend is my male squirrel they both share my room. I am so glad you love Torties.
Rick Middleton says
August 11, 2019 at 12:52 pm
I rescued Gypsy (formerly Cathy) two years ago. She was 1.5 years old. When I got her she hid. I tried coaxing her out with toys, food and treats. She finally came out and surveyed the place with me watching her. She looked at me and just started talking. I never knew just how talkative torties could be. She talks up a storm when she enters a room; leaves a room, is looking for me but especially when she is playing. She is very intelligent too. She knows what time I feed her (6am and 6pm) and gets quite impatient if I do not feed her on time. Same goes with her treats. Most times she will come to see me at those exact times. I thought time changes might affect her; I was wrong. She is also my alarm clock in the morning. I love my dear Gypsy; though I am not sure who rescued whom.
Linda says
August 12, 2019 at 2:35 pm
I just had a baby kitten show up at my house – a true Torti- Absolutely adorable- about 8 weeks  old- someone dropped her off I think or at least abandoned her- she’s mine now! I named her Gypsy- wish I could upload a picture of her- she is amazingly beautiful- two different color eyes
Matt says
August 20, 2019 at 5:34 pm
I had a tortie cat years ago from a kitten. Whenever she heard the sound of a sweet rapper, she would sit on the floor in front of you and you’d have to throw it to her.  Then she’d go and get it and bring it back for you to throw  again – most times she would catch it in mid air.  If camera phones had been around then, she would have been a YouTube sensation…
Lauren says
August 22, 2019 at 1:10 pm
My little tortie is another CoCo, around 8 months old. I got her from the shelter about a month ago and was told her owner had to have a kidney transplant. CoCo fits the type – very lively, sweet, and independent. She visits my lap but doesn’t stay for more than a minute. I hope one day she’ll calm down some so I can pet her more than just in passing. She’s a  licker and often gives love nibbles. I wish she wouldn’t do the love bites but so far, saying no and pulling my hand away result in nothing. Any ideas?
Deb says
August 25, 2019 at 12:38 am
Loved reading they are the Diva’s of the cat world.  My bob-tailed tortie was so shy when she joined our family, it took 4-6 weeks to coax her to meet her brother and sister (small cat friendly dog and orange tabby sister), however, once she found her “place” she has proven to be quite the little bossy boots and is not shy one bit.  When she does wrong (sneaks outside), she returns with a smirk as she struts by.  My cats name is Roxy and and she has lots of moxie.
Erin says
September 6, 2019 at 10:17 pm
My Baby is about 7mnths old and def loves her mamma lol She follows me everywhere.  Yup including three bathroom.
Usually if I’m eating so is she lol
She’s a very loving cat that doesn’t meow at all (yes she’s able too) nor does she scratch up any furniture.
She loves sleeping… especially on me, playing and eating lol
I’ve had Baby since she was about 8wks old
Hailstorm says
September 12, 2019 at 5:15 am
My short haired tortie is almost a year old. Her name is Remington but you can also call her Remmi. She’s so loving and sweet. Everynight she insists on laying next to me. She is very protective and her bestfriend is my brothers little Chihuahua. They will chase eachother around for hours. I couldn’t ask for a better and more loving cat than a tortie.
Luna says
September 17, 2019 at 12:40 pm
I have been blessed with my Tortie Purrmione. Sweet and affectionate but only on her terms.
She is very vocal and will demand my attention. If I dare turn my back she doesn’t hesitate to reach out and hook my shirt or give me a gentle nip on the butt to let me know she wasn’t done “talking” ?
Renee Reid says
September 29, 2019 at 1:14 am
My dog found my domestic short hair torte, Mocha, when she was 3 weeks old in bushes on our nightly walk. She is now 2 years old. Attacks the dog a few times a day, watches everything from a distance, very very smart and entertaining, remembers everything, follows the dog around everywhere, doesn’t like to be held even though I pick her up at least once a week and stroke her, never had a cat and she is beautiful, graceful, smart, wakes me up every morning at 7:30 am, cries when hungry, plays with herself all night, runs/jumps and chases herself most of the night, brought me a hummingbird the other day (oops). I will love her forever.
CJ says
October 4, 2019 at 5:55 am
I have a 7 year old tortie named “Kahlua”. As someone said above, mine also is a big talker! She has distinct sounds for different things; one for food, another for toys, another for tummy rub. The best is when she knows I am busy and really needs to get my attention: it sounds like a baby-voice gargling mouthwash really fast (seriously!). She follows me around the house in my daily routine, and watches over me like I’m her kitten. I never realized how sweet and affectionate a cat could be until I got my tortie–she’s great!
Narelle says
October 16, 2019 at 3:34 pm
Last month we’ve adopted a stunning long haired now-9-months old, tortie. We named her Najila (pronounced Nah-YEE-la, and means “eyes that glisten” because she has gorgeous bright yellow eyes! She speaks to me all day long, beeps, purrs, bbbbrrrrrr, and other funny noises. The funniest is when she sees a bird! She beeps then her mouth chatters! It’s hilarious! She’s so sweet and loving and loves to be included with the family. She is perfect for us!
Devina Celeste says
October 23, 2019 at 7:38 am
I have a gorgeous dark torturous called Chai . I have 21 rescued cats but Chai is my favourite. She’s just turned 15 and I keep telling her she has to live till 25 (no pressure). She’s lost some weight and has arthritis so I’ve put all her food, water, litter etc on a tressle table beside my bed to make life easier for her. I love Chai to bits. I’ve found that when I give her 4mls of Himalayan goji juice daily, the network marketing one, not store bought) everything in her improves. I’m so pleased that many people on this site have had forties who’ve lived long lives. Thank you for sharing. Devina
Devina Celeste says
October 23, 2019 at 7:41 am
Ps apologies for above typo. Was supposed to say dark tortie but my iPhone had other ideas. Devina
Becky says
November 8, 2019 at 4:56 am
We have a tortie we adopted 2 yrs ago, she was 1 when we brought her home. Her name is Bean..my husband said we should call her coffee Bean as a joke but I fell in love with the name and thought it would suit her well. She’s pretty chill, not to crazy but loves to be loved. She’s very clean, always cleaning herself. Her coat is so soft and shinny. She’s just a beautiful cat.
Mel says
November 23, 2019 at 12:37 am
We just adopted a 4 month old tortie named Nala. She is such a lover. Her purr is loud and her cuddles are the best! Her meow is squeaky. She was on the list to be euthanized (which we found out after we adopted her). She is now in her forever home!
Rojan says
December 2, 2019 at 12:02 am
Hi. You explained very well. I just received this cat gift. But I can’t figure out exactly which category.
Kim says
December 29, 2019 at 2:18 am
I have a 7 year old Tortie named Marlie that I got when she was only 4 weeks old. I recently got another rescue Tortie that is now 10 weeks old. I named her Tude (pronounces too-dee) because of her obvious attiTUDE. ?
Joan Erickson says
January 20, 2020 at 12:41 am
Our tortoiseshell cat’s name is Xena Terrapinita del Fuego y Humo (Xena Little Turtle of Fire and Smoke) kind of a bastardized Latin and Spanish name.
Cindy says
January 20, 2020 at 9:54 pm
Momma kitty was at least 23plus years.  Gracie Lynn was 20 and a runt.  At her heaviest was 5 pounds. And no one messed with her. If she got mad her eyes turned black. And other cats would run.  Sweetest cat ever!
Deborah Mcswain says
January 21, 2020 at 7:32 am
My baby was a tiny thing found abandoned at a gas station. Her name is Sable. Affectionate to a fault. Head butts and kisses all the time.
Pat Kenderdine says
January 22, 2020 at 7:49 pm
I have a wonderful torti. She was picked up as a half-starved little scrap of a kitten by a local who was passing the garbage site on his scooter when he noticed someone throwing something out of a car window. He realised it was a kitten. Unfortunately, he was so intent on saving the kitten that he didn’t take the registration number of the vehicle. I took charge of the kitten, took her home, gave her a bath (she was covered in fleas and was suffering from severe malnutrition). Needless to say, she has thrived and 7 years later, is still with me.
My late husband named her Ziggy, because of the ginger zig-zag stripes on her front legs.
My husband fell ill with cancer and passed away. The hospital phoned me at 2.45 a.m. to say we should get to the hospital quickly because he was passing. My daughter, who was staying with me at the time to lend a hand with this very ill man before he went to hospital, and I shot out of bed and started to dress to go to the hospital. I immediately checked to see where Ziggy was, as I wanted to keep her inside while we were out. She was nowhere to be seen and I KNEW she had been sleeping on my feet at the bottom of the bed just minutes before.  We couldn’t wait to look for her and we proceeded downstairs to leave for the hospital. Just then the phone rang again. It was the hospital to tell us my late husband had passed away. There was no point in going to the hospital then so I gave them instructions, made copious quantities of coffee and cried. Then a short while later, we heard Ziggy calling outside the sliding door.
The doors were locked. The windows were all closed (it was May and very cold already with the onset of winter in South Africa). Nothing was open ANYWHERE. So maybe you can figure out how Ziggy got out of the house and where she went.
We fully believe she went to help Dave cross over to the other side.
Ziggy is a very special cat and she is treated as such by all members of the family.
Marci says
February 29, 2020 at 11:57 pm
My sweet Tortie is named Lucy Lu. I found her on adoption day at Pets Mart 5 years ago. There were kitties running everywhere..all adorable but then I saw “ my “ kitty! She was in the arms of a little boy and I just held my breath! I waited and when he put her down, I reached out for her, she nestled in my arepas and buried her sweet two-toned face in my hand! I called out to all… This is my cat! I loved her at first sight and she loved me! I still catch my breath when I look at her! She is beautiful, quiet, sweet, affectionate and spoiled! My kids were spoiled too and they have all turned out prefect! Lucy too! She is my quiet, sweet girl. Her “brother” is a beautiful black Bombay…. he and I take care of sweet Lucy Lu!
Tammy Thomas says
March 18, 2020 at 10:39 am
I have a torti, Miss Muffet, that my son brought home when she was 9 weeks old and refused to take her when he moved out because she didn’t take to him…she didn’t take to anyone actually.  She’s now 10.  I’ve never had a cat like her.  Her coloring is amazing and she’s got the biggest gold eyes I’ve ever seen.  But her attitude sucks.  She is the most aloof cat ever.  Most people don’t even know we have a cat because she hides whenever there are people around.  She won’t let us pick her up but she will demand to be petted by walking back & forth beside our chairs and crying until we pet her.  In fact, she ‘talks’ A LOT!!  I love her and will continue to care for her as I would any pet but once she’s gone, I’ll never have another torti.
JMC says
June 9, 2020 at 9:14 pm
I was heartbroken after my little black cat Circe had to be put down due to multisystem organ failure (she was 20). However I had to get another cat so my love can go somewhere. Less than 2 weeks later I adopted a calico and a Tortie, naming the calico Matilda and the Tortie Moneypenny. They are litter mates and sisters and the loves of my life. Moneypenny has an attitude but she is so stunning that u forgive her immediately. Matilda is such a mush. They are my beautiful girls. I just love them to pieces!
Heather Neuman says
June 10, 2020 at 4:46 pm
My tortoises mother was found out in the cold with her new born cats.My husband and I drove 300 miles to get my tortie cat.I have been an animal rescuer for years. I have worked for the humane society and peta.I eat no meat. I named my precious tortie Katrina.I love her like she is my child. My husband andI love Katrina like she is our baby.I live in a big house.Katrina has the run of the house.She has lots of toys to play with.I live in a big house with a large back yard with woods behind our
House.Many animals live in the woods.Katrina loves to look outside our big windows to watch deer squirrels rabbits chipmunks and turkeys.She is never bored.I take wonderful care of her.When I ask her if she loves me she will rub her head on my hand.So glad I have her.love her like she is my baby.Heather Neuman
I
Heather Neuman says
June 10, 2020 at 4:49 pm
Post where ever is appropriate
rowena says
June 10, 2020 at 10:33 pm
my Jingle loved your article and she is a typical tortie
Rose Thon says
June 13, 2020 at 10:24 pm
Just brought home my kitten we named “Sash” (long haired-torbie American Bob tail) She is so incredibly loving and insists on snuggling up on my neck or anything close to the face. She is constantly following us around and gives lots of kisses. However, when she is in play mode, she is very stubborn and can be a little Diva! So much personality packed into this tiny little creature, but by far my favorite breed thus far and absolutely gorgeous coat! Would recommend the American Bob Tail breed for any family who prefers a more dog-like personality (kitten wants to be around us every second) and is not bothered by other animals, kids, vacuum, or loud noises.
Leanne Butterfield says
June 17, 2020 at 12:32 am
I have had 2 tortured. My first was Bayley which I adopted from the humane society. Unfortunately this beauty had a liver shunt and went over the Rainbow at 6 months old. I now have Mocha who I adopted at birth and brought her home at 6 weeks. She is a Mama’s girl. If I leave the room she will sit at the door and cry for me. At night she sleeps in the crook of my shoulder with her head resting on me. She is beautiful.
Linda says
July 2, 2020 at 12:10 pm
We have Whimsy, a tortie with white trim down her neck & belly with white mittens and feet, who showed up as a kitten in our back yard, hissing at my husband.  I put out a box with a towel and she decided to stay.  The first time I saw her she was eating a rat, eeeewwww.  So I knew I had to feed her, and that made her “ours” yet you all know it made us hers.  She is a squeaker, and she mumbles and even can sound like a chattering hen at times.  If I enter a dark room, where she’s sleeping, I can often hear a little squeak from her.  It’s adorable.  She only cuddles with me, only at night when I’m in bed, and it’s a routine of in and out of the covers before she settles down next to me.  She has a routine of sleeping on our bed in the early evening and then later at night will make her appearance.  She literally works by the clock.
LAURIE says
July 10, 2020 at 7:47 pm
I just adopted my cute little tortie girl a month ago. She is 11 months old Her name is stormy, she looks like a grey storm cloud with hints of light orange/cream. She is so loving and mischievous.   I look forward to many happy years with my little kitty.
Nicole Gallegos says
July 13, 2020 at 9:02 am
My little ladies name is Tink and just like Tinkerbell, she is feisty (but super sweet)!  No white on this lady but she has the split color face. She is only about 7 weeks old but has claimed her spot on the bed; on my shoulder and on my pillow! She is definitely tiny (but so is her momma).
Darcy says
July 22, 2020 at 5:17 am
IMG_0215.jpeg
I posted a pic here, I hope it shows up because our tortie Georgia, call her Georgie, is the most beautiful creature on earth and we love her beyond. I never wanted a cat, I’m a dog person, didn’t like cats. The whole fam wanted a cat so I had to be fair. I’m in love with her! She rules the roost and keeps her canine friend Mika in line, but certainly takes advantage of Mika’s post potty treats. She couldn’t be more loved!
Turbokai says
August 16, 2020 at 10:51 am
We have both a tortie (adopted) AND a torbie (adopted us as a stray.)  They are four and seven, respectively, and their names are Sassafras and Jade.
We got the report back two days later.
Definitive diagnosis: normal heart.
I started bawling like a baby, to the point of shaking with pure relief.
The best Christmas present I’ve ever had in my life, combined.
Our other furbaby, Jade, is slowly coming around after what we presume to be an abusive and/or traumatic past with adults.  She was 99% fine interacting with our three kids (ranging in age from nine to fifteen) but the diffence was like night and day when it came to adults.  She started off very handshy, and would turn on you very quickly (and aggressively) when she finally did initiate contact.  It has taken a few years, but with infinite patience/learning her body language to respect her boundaries, she has (generally) learned that she can trust us to love and take care of her, period.
(And more important, she will NEVER be hurt by our hands or otherwise.)
She has become an absolute sweetheart, albeit with occasional rough edges that are likely (and understandably) permanent if our suspicions are correct.  Either way, we adore her to pieces.
The intensity with which these furry little beings become so intertwined with your family (and indeed, your very life) never ceases to amaze me.  I am very glad I learned to appreciate just how much throughout their time with us, rather than being whacked with it across the head at the end, when that VERY steep bill tallied up on your heart comes due.
Carolyn says
September 20, 2020 at 3:47 pm
I am in the process of adopting my first cat since I was a teenager and I have 4 grown children now! I’ve named this beautiful brindle tortie MOIRA. She is approximately 7 months old and was a pregnant stray when she was found loitering around my friends refuse containers, most likely looking for food. She was horribly emaciated so  my friend fed her all the kitten food she would eat in an attempt to put some weight on her and get some nutrition to her unborn kittens. I’m happy to say that her 3 kittens were all born healthy and Moira has turned out to be an excellent mother. When her kittens are weaned, she will get her shots and be spayed: that is when she will come to me! I’m so excited!
Meredith says
October 18, 2020 at 4:39 am
I picked my Tortie from hundreds of pictures on a kill shelter’s website. I had no idea what kind of cat she was at the time, but I thought she was the prettiest cat I had ever seen. She is a long-haired Tortie, mostly black and orange with one tiny spot of white on her tummy. I have never had a sweeter cat in my entire life. I have a Shih Tsu who gives her constant grief and she has yet to growl or hiss and it’s been nearly two years now. When I brought her home, she just moved in as if she had always been her. Slept on my bed the first night. I found out later that Torties can sometimes have an attitude.  Not this cat! Although she is very inquisitive and mischievous and gets into trouble on a daily basis. Keeps me on my toes. But I adore her!
cara says
December 3, 2020 at 7:19 pm
My Tortie is named Choey.  The stripe down her nose reminded my daughter of a skunk.  My daughter is from China and the word for skunk in her dialect is (approximately) Chouyon.  So we have a Choey.  I have bottle fed her from birth as her mother had an emergency c section and didn’t show interest in nursing.
Devina Celeste says
January 15, 2021 at 8:25 am
I absolutely love dark torties. I had 3 until 3 days ago. My beautiful girl, Chai,  passed away by means of euthanasia. She was 16 years and 3.5 months. She had a stroke over a year ago, which wasn’t obvious at the time, but gradually she started walking like a drunk and her pupils got very large. At first I thought it was arthritis but the arthritis tablets (green lipped mussel) didn’t work so I realised it was something else. Several vets agreed she’d had a stroke, but I immediately put her on cannabis oil and goji juice (called gochi) and I got an extra year out of her and the vets were amazed.  When she was little, she was had a thing for noticing marks on the wall and I would pick her up and carry her all through the house till she had investigated every single dot and mark on the wall  and “pawed” them all. How cute was that? Farewell Chai. You were my best friend.
Natasha Carrington says
January 16, 2021 at 1:02 am
I loved reading this. I adopted my beautiful willow in June 2020 at 5 years. She is so vocal and sassy. I adore her xx
Pat Walsh says
February 1, 2021 at 4:59 pm
My husband and I vacationed in Utah, stopped by Best Friends Animal Sanctuary and my husband (determined to be only a one cat family) fell in love with a seven week old Tortie named Amanda.  Now almost two, she is the best friend to our Manx Misty (a 6-year-old rescue) and brings so much joy and laughter to our home.  So full of mischief and affectionate.  We could not imagine life without our two girls!
Marcie says
February 3, 2021 at 8:02 pm
My sisters cat had kittens and 2 were tortoises..I got adopted butvthe one is like an emotional support kitty. I think she could sense when I was upset and would climb up my leg. I carried her around forever. Shes about 9 months now and I named her Duck. I cant have pets so I come to stay at my sisters a lot. She also bites my neck when i havent seen her in a couple days. I love her so much just wish i could have her at home.
Seana says
February 6, 2021 at 8:38 pm
We adopted Luna AKA Tawny from our local SPCA this past July 2020. She was just 7 weeks old when someone found her on the side of the road by herself in a town named Loon Bay, that is why we named her Luna! She is now 8 months old, she loves her sister and 2 brothers! She is very vocal with me, follows me everywhere. She loves to suck on a fuzzy blanket!! She is such a l’il sweetheart
emma says
February 10, 2021 at 8:09 pm
We adopted a brother and sister this time last year. He is a ginger called Otto and she is a tortie called Abra. He is chilled and loves following sunlight and Abra can keep herself entertained for hours chasing an elastic band or hair tie. Both of which she will steal on the quiet. And she keeps Otto well in line! We love them both
R says
February 12, 2021 at 3:41 am
We have two from the same litter, a medium/long hair torti and her brother a medium long black hair with a brown bib and slight highlights.
Our daughter named our torti Mystical (Misty for short) and we named our prince of darkness Milo.
They’re the most well behaved cats we have ever had, they’re protective of their human sister (our daughter) and their personalities are blossoming everyday. Our boy Milo talks to my spouse in full conversations and Mystical constantly has her eyes dilated, for a puss in boots effect haha. If anyone is ever on the fence about finding a furry companion as a torti or black cat you will never regret it! We can’t wait to spend our lives with them as everyday we always say they have brought so much joy to our lives!
Sandra Colville says
February 15, 2021 at 10:14 am
We have a beautiful long hair tortie, she’s 10 months old and she’s a little bundle of fun and energy, she’s also a bit of a diva, she takes over her brother’s bed and won’t budge, her name is Norah.
Dorothy Keizer says
March 6, 2021 at 8:33 pm
My Tortie is Sabrina the Baby Witch.   She was rescued in mid-October and she chose to come home with me on October 20 . . . hence the name.   She definitely has tortitude and the name suits her well.
Estelle says
March 12, 2021 at 8:03 am
I have a pair of Torties, mother and daughter. They are both so cute, observant, spunky, and loving. Mom is wuiet, daughter is chatty. Mom was an abandoned pregnant kitty and daughter was born in our home with three brothers. We love them all so much.
Estelle Marie says
March 12, 2021 at 8:11 am
I have mother and daughter torties, beautiful pair but mom is quiet, daughter is chatty. Love them so much.
Karlene says
March 13, 2021 at 5:32 am
Fun facts, thank you!
My Torties name is Misu, short for Tiramisu. She has the same colorings of that sweet Italian dessert. She also looks like the Girl Scout cookie, Samoa’s, thought about naming her Moa, but everyone liked Misu more. She’s absolutely beautiful and maybe even a Torbie. She has striking orange rings down her tail and on her face and body. We love her! Thanks for letting me share.
Debra Anderson says
March 18, 2021 at 11:19 pm
I love that I found this site.  I adopted my first Tortie 5 days ago, she was on a rescue site.  Apparently a 2 yr old, she ended up at a vet office covered in scabs [from fungal infection], she was not spayed, no chip of course, her ears are both frost-bitten and “had a hole in her head” and part of a back leg was missing.
She was amputated 15 days ago and will have the stitches out tomorrow. She has slept almost every minute I’ve had her [named Lacey for her currently ‘lacy’ ears, which I understand will have dead parts fall off].
She has snarled less in the last 2 days when she sees my 5.5 lb. 13 year old Chihuahua and my 2 others kitties so we are in early days.  She’s not even 7 lbs. but expect she’ll get another couple of pounds within a few months.
Thank you all for your wonderful Tortie stories, this is a new adventure.  I was in a bad accident 39 years ago so, as a formerly ‘broken’ person, I brought home a broken cat.  My [late] husband was told I’d be a ‘vegetable’ for the rest of my life and he took me home anyway and now I’ve taken this little sweetie home too, for the rest of her life. 🙂
bah humbug says
April 19, 2021 at 1:08 am
torties are sooooo cute!!!!!
Susanne says
May 16, 2021 at 1:55 am
I have a beautiful tortitude manned Billy, she is such a talker and we have so many conversations, it is just the 2 of us so she growls at anyone who visits, she loves me soo much, but she is naughty, she was 13 in April and still fully of energy
AnnMarie says
May 26, 2021 at 7:24 pm
I Have A Long Haired Tortie, her name is Coffee, She will be 20yrs young in November.
Like your Myth above,  Coffee Has told My 2 Daughters and 1 of their friends that they were pregnant so truth to that one.
avy says
June 12, 2021 at 10:06 pm
i named my tortie kitty Circe after the titan goddess, naiad (water) witch from the Odyssey, and that was before i knew the color’s mythical connection to goddesses; she was also born in March, making her a Pisces witch is a water sign and coincides with her namesake 🙂 i love my tortie!
Trina says
June 23, 2021 at 5:41 pm
I named my new kitten Cocoa. I just adopted her yesterday almost 3 months old.
Sharon E Theuma says
July 3, 2021 at 3:35 am
Have our first kitten she has beautiful marking so we called her Lacey
Brian says
July 9, 2021 at 12:40 am
I save our stray Tortie out of tree near our house. She was stuck in this big Oak tree for 5 days. I called animal rescue the fire dept, police dept no one would come get her.
We started to get the remnants of a hurricane, she was in the pouring rain crying all day and night and so was my daughter. So I got my 20ft ladder put it the bed of my truck up into the tree climbed a few branches and grabbed her by the scruff of her neck and saved her.
My daughter who was 14 at the time took care her but she wouldn’t stay in the house. So we let her out about a week later, then a few days after that my daughter was going to school in the morning and yelled dad there are chipmunks on the porch. Here it was the Tortie with very newborn kittens. On Gray and furry the other jet black.
So we brought the whole family in the house and took care of them. Decided to keep the Gray kitty and gave the other one to a very close friend who’s loves her dearly now.
We name our Tortie Sprinkles and the Gray on Gracie. Got them both fixed and shots now they are part of the family.
Sprinkles still wants to go outside all the time, I even taught her to roll over before she goes out. Soon as she goes to the door she chatters and soon as say rollover she does and out the door she goes.
Bobbie says
July 23, 2021 at 12:54 pm
My mother had a colony of wild black cats in her yard. One day when i was visiting one of the kittens (  Named KI-KI) (Tortie) had gotten into my car and rode 3 hr.’s to my home and i didn’t know it was there.2 days later i found her in the garage. We found out from the vet she was about 5 weeks old. Her face is 1/2 black and 1/2 gold she is now 2 yr.’s old, very active and talks all the time. Loves to play with our Male ( Named BINKS) 12 yr. old Black cat we took in 10 yr.’s ago, that was a stray. Both cats seem to have picked us. Both are very spoiled cats now.
Debbie Kavanda says
July 23, 2021 at 2:13 pm
My three granddaughters and I are the proud owners of a tortoiseshell we named “Luna” !! Her face is half orange half black which made us think of an eclipse of the “moon” !  Our “Luna” has PLENTY of “tortitude” !!
Sharon says
July 26, 2021 at 3:07 am
My mom had a tortie named Muffin.  She called her her  Rolls Royce as you couldn’t hear her purr.  When you put your hand on her throat, it was vibrating.  She could open the basement door that had a hard plastic cover on the doorknob.  Shed put a paw on each side,keep jiggling it until opened.
Heidi says
September 2, 2021 at 6:07 am
Today, I rescued a tortie named Freckles from a house we are looking to buy.  Her owners abandoned her.  She is in need if urgent vet care, as she seems to have a tumor in her sinus and or bad teeth.  Poor sweet cat is 14 years old they told us.  She is home with me right now, vet visit in the morning.  I fell in love with her the day we were shown the house.  How could anyone abandon their senior pet in need of vet care?  I will give her the best years of her life starting now.  She will know love and human kindness.  Hopefully we can improve her health and make her happy.
Tiffany Barrett says
September 11, 2021 at 6:25 am
I just adopted a sweet little Tortie who is just around 8 wks. old. I named her Ember. I just brought her home yesterday and she’s the sweetest thing. As soon as you get close to her she purrs super loud. I can’t wait to see more of her personality and how she grows!
Ann says
September 20, 2021 at 3:44 pm
I have a lovely tortie with half and half face markings and the most beuatiful green eyes. I rescued her from the cat shelter last year and it was love at first sight. She is a very small cat and as a kitten tiny. Yet she stood her ground and boxed a bigger cat who was trying to bully her. When I growled at the other cat to leave her alone, she looked at me and walked right up, sniffed my foot and sat behind me. The shelter guy said she was a stressed cat and so she came with warnings. I don’t know what had happened to her, however it was not just a physical rescue – it was an emotional one too. She received love consistently n matter what she did and eventually – after about 8 months she started changing, becoming more loving and affectionate. She is the most challenging cat I have ever had at home, however the fight to reclaim her was worth it. She now has the most adorable personality to match her unique looks. She can be a little distant at times and then all of a sudden demanding. I wouldn’t change a thing and couldn’t imagine life without her.
Jay jones says
November 7, 2021 at 1:20 pm
So we just moved into a new house in South Georgia. When sitting on the porch smoking a cigarette I noticed something moving in the bushes, but couldn’t see it till it looked at me directly with its big bright green/blue eyes.
 When me and my girlfriend finally coaxed it out of the bush I noticed just how beautiful of a cat it was. He is a longer hair tortie. But notice I say he. I’m reading these cats are really rare in the male form, but I’ve personally seen him spray around our yard, so that makes him a male correct?
 He is friendly, and even comes all the way up to my girlfriend and I in the mornings to get him some food and a little petting, (by the way his fur is super soft).
  One time my girlfriend picked him up and tried bringing him into the house, not a good idea as he was trying to jump through closed windows and meowing super loud.
Could someone tell me if there is a way to turn  this beautiful cat into a house cat I stead of a yard cat?
Maureen Henry says
November 15, 2021 at 6:03 pm
I just adopted a beautiful 4 month old Tortie, her name is Raven.
Sara says
November 27, 2021 at 2:19 pm
My tortoiseshell was born in my bedroom. Her mother is all black. Her father was a stray orange tabby. She was the only baby in a litter of 4 who lived as by the time we realized the kittens were born to early to suckle, it was too late for the other 3. Although we tube fed and bottle fed our tortoiseshell until she could suckle on her mom, at 1 years old, she has attitude! We named her Murder Mittens! Murder Mittens lives up to her name. Once in a blue moon she will snuggle. Otherwise she tricks you into petting her just so she can tear you apart. We had hoped getting her fixed and getting older would mellow her out. Nope. She is bigger than her mother and plays very rough with her mom, only to see her snuggling with her mom a few minutes later. Mittens for short, will demand treats and will make sure you do not eat or sleep until you give in. Her attitude is something else, but I still wouldn’t give her up. Maybe someday we will get more snuggles as she loves kisses, but only on her terms. 1 thing I do love about her, I had a friend pass away and she dried every one of my tears. Out of our 6 cats, she was the most affectionate. 4 black (3 boys and 1 female) 1 Brown Female Tabby, and I love my tortie girl the best!!
Pamela Haymond says
January 1, 2022 at 9:51 am
Angela says
January 4, 2022 at 5:40 am
My cats name is Tuna Fey
RANGTA says
February 19, 2022 at 10:20 am
Yea, I have a tortie. Her name is Fatty, though the name is absolutely opposite to her structure. I do agree with many of your words as Fatty made me an animal lover, animal rescuer, animal therapist, animal communicator. She also brought back, love of my life along with prosperity and happiness and fame. She does have an attitude and used to admire my GSD. She’s an alpha female and very picky about food. She hates human kids, she would rather stay inside the room when kids are around. Though I never understood this trait of her. She’s an apple of my eye. Most importantly, I never knew that she was a tortie when I had rescued this tiny little kitten. People around me along with my daughter, hubby and friends, knows how much she means to me. At the moment while I am writing this comment, I am babysitting her kitten, while she is having her food.
Jodi Topping says
February 23, 2022 at 8:36 pm
My tortie adopted me!  She was actually a feral cat who gave birth under my front deck. We rehomed her babies and took her in.  She is very affectionate and has  a million dollar personality!  Her name is Snickers, like the candy bar.  Her name comes from the fact that her chin is half black and half Carmel color like the Snickers candy bar!
Sharlee Mosher says
March 25, 2022 at 9:02 pm
My Tortie chose her home.  She ran up a tree in my yard.  A yard mind you with 5 big dogs ranging from a Husky to a Rotweiler.  I got a ladder and rescued her from the tree.  A very strong willed cat now 1 year old not even close to being afraid of the dogs.
Angie says
April 11, 2022 at 3:17 am
We have a beautiful 12 week old. Does anyone else have a problem with their Torie trying to “escape”? Every time the door opens she bolt. She stands and the door and scratches and cries. I just cant stand the idea of her being outside. I’m afraid she will run off and not come back. She has a very sting attitude and very vocal. Anyone have any suggestions?
Dee says
August 11, 2022 at 8:55 am
I rescued my Tortie who came out of nowhere in my yard was not even 4 weeks old and she was very sick took us a year and she actually is cured when I was told she would never be normal she is over a year old now constantly tried to escape outside I’m too scared as well to let her out but she loves jumping on my shoulder and laying around my neck she talks to me fights with me I’m pregnant and when I’m sick she lays by my stomach and always makes me feel better she has def brought fortune and happiness into our home as well as luck she’s my baby girl and everyone loves her she’s the coolest cat half blonde half black with many different names from Luna to pretty girl to reeces
Tanya McMurry says
June 15, 2022 at 10:04 am
I rescued a tortie about 4 months ago from a local gas station. When i first petted her she was so starved that i could feel every bone in her body, and i mean every single one. She allowed me to pick her up and carry her all the way home. We fed her all she could possibly eat and when she was done shed find me and deliberately curl up either uder my legs (if they were bent) or any where on me she could and sleept for days. If i moved or tried to move her she wiuld meow in protest. I named her stormie for her coloring looks like a night sky full of brutal storm clouds Little did i know that she was really a storm herself. To myself and my husband ( but me mainly) she is a sweet cuddly lap cat satisfied to lie on her back (just like a dog) and have me rub her belly for hours until she fell asleep. But then one day about 3 weeks ago i found a cute furbaby wondering who couldnt have been more than 6 to 8 weeks old crying out for help. So me being the animal lover i am i brought her hone…….ooops. Stormie has actua)y moved herself outside as she wont even come inside the house as long as Bella is there. Lord forbid Bella come anywhere near me in Stormies sight. SHE HISSES AND GROWLS AND SHOWS HER DISAPPROVAL VERY CLEARLY. Stormie still to this day has not even remotely warmed up to Bella but bella has overcome her fear of stormie and charges at her like a bull and now its storie whos running like a scaredy cat all while hissing. Its cute to watch but really distressing as well as stressful to deal with. Sadly im at a loss on how to get them to tolerate eachother. ANY SUGGESTIONS. I MISS MY STORMIE CUDDLES. BUT I WONT TRADE BELLA FOR ANYTHING EITHER. IS IT POSSIBLE TO EVER GET THEM TO GET ALONG..
Christina says
July 24, 2022 at 7:34 am
I adopted a tortoiseshell cat as a kitten. She definitely has the tortitude lol. I named her Cashka she’s almost three years old now. She very strong spirited and a ball of energy who always keeps me on my toes. I’m so happy to have my little fur ball in my life. She’s to smart for her own good sometimes. I love her with my whole heart
Heather says
July 31, 2022 at 11:44 pm
My tortie found me, she was about 9 weeks old & was hiding under my car, I named her Cat Benatar. She’s now almost 2 & DEFINITELY has the toritatude. She is very playful when she wants to be but for the most part wants to be on the highest platform of her tower.
Susan says
August 1, 2022 at 10:30 pm
We went to shelter in May to see three other cats as an emotional support animal for a special needs adult. The one we brought home was not on the list but when they say cats pick their owner believe it she was considered not very sociable. My son wasn’t sure about a tortie colored cat and I wasn’t sure about a 14 pound cat, but  even after putting her down she crawled into my tote bag. She was determined to be ours. 3 months in and it was like she was always ours.  Maui’kai is a 2 year old 14+ pound “kitten”. Playful, energetic, little diva and a cuddler and my son loves pointing out all the different colors. I think he even forgot he wanted a yellow cat.
Sharo says
November 21, 2022 at 4:43 am
I have the best best little  tortilla ever. Her name is Lucy and is 14 yrs old. She  knows what she wants and is very vocal about it. She is the most caring and faithful friend.    When I’m not feeling well she knows it and doesn’t leave my side. Dog people who dont believe a cat can be a loyal companion,  think again. They are amazing.
Kathleen says
January 6, 2023 at 5:18 am
We adopted 2 Torties last year First Willow I would describe as torbie with white trim, I think she might be from the snow shoe breed she is loud likes water and steals stuff, and definitely has tortitude. Then we got Juniper she is a dilute tortie, mostly grey, she is much more mellow, but definitely has a crazy side. We waited 6 years to bring a new cat into our home, (We lost our last cat in 2016 at 22 years old, he was a beautiful lilac point siamese with no tail). We are so happy to have loving pets in our home again.
Jode says
January 7, 2023 at 7:05 am
I am blessed to have a beautiful long haired tortie with one hazel eye and one brown. Her name is Ethyl Mae Mertz affectionally called Emm or Emmer Beans. Emm is quite talkative  and loves belly rubs. She is tiny little princess weighing barely 5 pounds at age 4. And is most definitely the alpha cat in our household.
Pippa says
January 9, 2023 at 9:22 am
She sounds lovely 🙂
Lynn says
January 15, 2023 at 3:36 pm
I lost my Tortie last summer at 21.  It was love at 1st sight when we saw each other when she was 7wks old. My heart cracked open when she had to leave me.  Her name was “Squeaky Boots”.  She squeaked as a kitten and had extra toes on her front paws. The kitten squeaks became a whole vocabulary of loving sounds and a purr as big as a lion’s.  She held my heart when it was too heavy for me.   ‘There is no greater earthly privilege than to be loved by a Tortie’
Dayna says
February 11, 2023 at 4:08 pm
My Laney is the sweetest cat I’ve ever had the privilege of sharing life with! I adopted her from the humane society where she chose me by licking the tip of my nose after I had asked if she wanted to come home with me! She is now 12 and still plays with toys, gets the zoomies, and chases around with her siamese snowshoe brother Milo. She always wants to be near or on me and is super affectionate and cuddly. Her only “tortitude” is constantly getting on the kitchen counter despite all attempts to curb this behavior. I love her infinitely and I’m so lucky to be here mama.
Marci Schmidt says
March 8, 2023 at 1:37 pm
Today is my beautiful Lucy’s 7 th birthday! She is gentle, sweet and shy…I am her “person”!
I found her on cat adoption day at Pets Mart. There she was on the top shelf of cages. As I held my breath, waiting for my turn to see a cat, a little boy had her in his arms…the moment he handed her back, I pretty much shouted “ that’s my cat!”
It was love at first sight..For both of us! She had a “ brother “…a beautiful Bombay. Love them both…unconditionally!
Sandra Palmer says
April 25, 2023 at 10:57 pm
Jamethiel (the rescue named her J’Lo and I had to change that.) has a genetic disease that causes her to need meds every day.  We still love her.  She’s not a lap cat, which I can understand since she has to “tortured” every day with nasty tasting stuff being squirted into her mouth.  She’s generally pretty quiet unless she wants something or is objecting to something.  She does feel that she is entitled to certain things.  For instance Ham lived in the refrigerator and she feels that she should get some if you open the refrigerator door.  Or if you are cooking with certain raw meats.  And heaven forbid you have your one cup of coffee and forget to give her a tablespoon of cream.  She has NO sense of humor which can make a bit of trouble living with the other two cats.  She’s totally businesslike.  She also manages to catch mice and birds when on a tie out in the yard while I garden.  She loves the daylights out of me, and I’m the one that squirts stuff in her mouth.  She avoids my husband in the main since he’s the one who holds her for me at medicine time.
Luan Leigh says
August 28, 2023 at 7:01 pm
I have a half Siamese baby who is very vocal she is needy and loving at times but can be very sassy often leading into a hand bite she has so much energy that needs to be burnt of before bed we named her enola
Linda Mason says
September 4, 2023 at 9:47 am
My twin Torties have NEVER spoken.  Not a meow.  Not a screech.  Nothing for their entire 7 years.  Anyone else have mute cats?
Sandy Armstrong says
May 13, 2024 at 5:16 pm
yes my female tortie has never talked.  She is now 15 and ii was so blessed after years of searching  found her.  I was at her house hours before and a client came running up to me and asked did I still want one. Went back to the house and opened the porch door and said I hear there is a little kitten who wants to go home.  BENIEVE THIS  She came over the couch and got in my hand and she came home in my bra, Shes sitting on the table right now.   I don’t want to  lose her but she is getting frail and will not let her suffer.
Tim says
June 11, 2024 at 12:58 am
My Tortie is named Sheba, and she is the Queen of Daddy’s Heart that she has wrapped around her little claw!  <3  But she is temperamental, and doesn't work and play well with the other cats.  We had a tri-color Tortie take up here and have two litters of kittens.  We still have all but one from the second litter, and one of them is a Tortie.  I call her Salome.  The MommaCat had a yellow tabby in her first litter that I think belongs to my yellow tabby, so I kept her, because she's my grandkitty, but she, and all but the male tabby from the second litter won't have anything to do with us; they run from our approach.  But that yellow tabby male follows my mother and I when we go outside.  I call him Tom Sawyer, because he was an adventurous kitten, but now I'm as likely to call him Lil Mo after my cat Morris, who is a father to all of them, even though he isn't their biological father.
Kate says
July 30, 2024 at 3:27 am
I just had to say goodbye to my almost 22 year old tortie. She was born in May of 2002 and crossed the rainbow bridge October 2023. She was an amazing cat and is missed terribly. I always said that our love for her kept her alive for as long. She was just the best cat ever.
Pippa says
August 26, 2024 at 11:05 am
So sorry for your loss Kate. That’s an amazing age and she sounds wonderful
Neil Adkins says
October 22, 2024 at 12:34 am
My LouLou was 22 as well, and she passed 30th sept 2024……….she was my LOVE…..god i miss her. She was a tiny cat and i often had people saying ” Awwww i like your kitten”………..she was about 20 at the time!!!
Trish says
August 12, 2024 at 6:08 am
My torti was named Raggamuffin Vagabond, I called her Rags for short, she looked like an old  gold & orange dirty cloth with splotches of oil all over. She had a very sweet temperament and would roll onto her back & wave her paws in the air saying “pet me pet me” She was a big love sponge and liked lots of attention and even though she was a larger sized cat, she had a very tiny “mew” She’s been gone more than 30 years and I still miss her.
Neil Adkins says
October 22, 2024 at 12:30 am
With great sadness I had to put my Tortie ” LouLou” to sleep 2 weeks ago…….she was the love of my life and indeed it broke my heart to say goodbye to her.
She was 22 years old and gave me love unconditionally. Being a guy from the UK where if you’re a REAL MAN you have a staff bull terrier, then i guess im proud to be different.
Growing up we always had English Springer Spaniels in our family, but after an ex partner left me and took everything in our house i was assuming she had taken both of her cats with her along with everything else in the place.
After deliberatly coming downstairs after the commotion of her taking everything and it was deathly quiet…….i sat in an old chair she had left and started to feel sorry for myself……..about 5mins later the cat flap went ” Kherr ching ” and LouLou bounded in and jumped on my lap and nuzzled me……….I WAS HOOKED.
Love you LouLou, and now i have your ashes in an urn, your paw prints on a card and tufts of fur in an envelope…….you will be coming with Daddy when I get my calling and we can be together forever.
KG says
December 19, 2024 at 8:12 pm
My tortie is 8 months old and named Rocket.  She is an absolute ball of energy and uniqueness, far more so than any other kitten or cat that I’ve ever owned and I’ve had many! She is a short haired traditional colored tortie but has a tail that seems like it’s several inches longer than it should be, proportionally! She is extremely independent when she wants to be and then 10 minutes later is the best snuggler.  She will literally cling to my arm upside down and play bite softly my wrists and hands one minute and then gives the sweetest kisses the next. What’s that? She hears someone using the restroom? Nope! Nobody is allowed to use the restroom alone – she will run and jump/dive inside everyones pants or shorts if you’re sitting on the toilet and stay there until you stand up no matter how long you sit there! She will stand up on her hind legs and beg to be picked up where she will then hop on your neck and shoulder and lay there or sit there while you walk around the house.  Somebody else mentioned playing fetch -it’s true! Rocket goes the same! She’s more like our dog in so many ways than our other cat.  I flick a little ball of paper and she fetches it and jumps up next to me and drops it in my lap. 20, 30, 40 flicks later she’s still fetching it every single time and drops it in the exact same spot in my lap. I could go on and on about all of her quirks and spunkiness!! I will most likely never have a cat ever again as unique as she is.  I’m excited to see what else is in that little curious head of hers as she continues to grow and age!!!!!
--------------------------------------------------
Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share

When you hear the term “tortoiseshell cat,” you may believe these cats are a breed of their own, when in fact, they are not a breed at all. Rather, the word “tortoiseshell” refers to a distinctive color-patterned coat. The bi-colored coats look like the shell of a tortoise, hence the name, and their appearance is similar to a Calico.
Torties, as they’re affectionately called, can be seen in quite a few cat breeds, which we’ll list in this post.

Torties often come with “tortitudes,” meaning they can be sassy and vocal; however, they love their owners, and the feeling is mutual. Interestingly, tortoiseshell cats are almost exclusively female, and if you do find a male, the male will be sterile due to an extra X chromosome.
Color combinations are often black and orange, and some have red, ginger, or chocolate mixed into the coat. One way to differentiate a tortie from a Calico is Calicos typically have white mixed in with the fur, whereas a tortie will not.
Torties can have long or short hair, and there are quite a few breeds that sport the tortie coat. Let’s take a look at specific breeds that can be considered a “tortoiseshell cat.”

Tortoiseshell American Shorthair cats are black with shades of red over the entire body. These cats are easygoing, good-natured, and make excellent family companions. These cats form bonds with every family member, and they love to play; however, they do not demand your attention.
The British Shorthair is friendly and docile. They have dense, short coats and come in many color varieties apart from the tortoiseshell pattern, including white, blue-grey, tabby, cream, lilac, red, calico, cinnamon, and fawn. It takes time for these cats to trust you, but once they do, they’ll love your attention—you’ll also have a faithful feline for life.
The Persian cat is a longhaired breed distinguishable by a short muzzle and rounded face. They are among the most popular cat breeds to own and have luxurious coats. They sport a majestic and elegant attitude and have awesome personalities. Other colors you’ll find are smoke, cream, tabby, black, chocolate, lilac, and blue.
The Cornish Rex is loveable, social, and playful with high energy levels. They are a smaller cat breed yet have large ears that make them distinguishable. They are attentive, and inquisitive, and their coats are short with tight curls, which is another distinguishable trait. They come in many color variations and patterns in addition to the tortoiseshell pattern, such as tabby and calico.
The Maine Coon is a large domestic cat with a unique, human-like face that comes from selective breeding over the years. They are playful, independent, and energetic and may or may not demand your attention, depending on their current mood. They have a gentle nature and love to vocalize. Nicknamed “gentle giants,” these cats have a few color variations, consisting of tortoiseshell, tabby, shaded, bi-color, calico, white, cream, red, blue, and black.
The Domestic Longhair is known for its hunting capabilities and is excellent to have around if you have a rodent problem. The fur can grow an impressive 6 inches, and you’ll find them in almost every color, as well as mixed shades. They are independent yet affectionate, and they do well with other pets in the home.

A post shared by Happy Cats Haven | Cat Rescue (@happycatshaven)

The Manx has an interesting feature: they have a shorter tail due to a naturally occurring mutation, and some are even tailless. They can have short or long hair that is dense and double-layered. While you can find them in almost any color or pattern, tabby, orange, and tortoiseshell are the most common.
Ragamuffins have long, fluffy, silky hair and rather large bodies. They are affectionate and love to cuddle with their owners. They love attention and do well with children, making them ideal family pets. They are similar to dogs in terms of personality, and they are clever and friendly. The Ragamuffin comes in various colors and patterns: tortoiseshell, blue, brown tabby with white, and mink.
The Japanese Bobtail is a relatively rare cat breed with a short tail commonly referred to as a “pom.” They can have either long or short hair, and they are small and affectionate. They come in many colors and patterns in addition to the tortoiseshell, and they make excellent family pets due to their friendly and playful nature. However, they do not do well being left alone for long periods of time because they become attached to their owners.
Scottish Fold cats are known for their round faces, large eyes, short legs, and folded ears (however, some may never develop folded ears). These cats are intelligent, friendly, and make an excellent addition to any household. They come in either longhair or shorthair: the longhair coat is fluffy and thick, while the shorthair coat is dense and plush. Additional colors are red, cream, black, blue, white, and tabby.

Quite a few cat breeds come with a tortoiseshell pattern, and the breed you desire will depend on the type of temperament you’re searching for in a kitty companion. All the cats listed in this post make excellent family additions, and you can’t go wrong with any of them.
See also:
Featured Image Credit: andres felipe Aristizabal, Pixabay
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Sign up to our newsletter and be the first to find out about new arrivals, exclusive promos and helpful cat-related tips
by signing up to our newsletter you are agreeing to our privacy policy
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Dogs
Cats
Info
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
Torties are truly the divas of the cat world.
Tortoiseshell cats are not a specific breed, and are actually named after their distinct multicolor fur. Traditional tortoiseshell cats primary have black, red, and orange fur with brown mixed in. There are also dilute tortoiseshell cats with less intense coloring due to genetics and even chocolate tortoiseshell cats with much darker fur.
RELATED: 10 Large Cat Breeds That Would Be the Purr-fect Addition to Your Home
Tortoiseshell cats occur in a variety of breeds, including American Shorthair, British Shorthair, Persian, Cornish Rex, Ragamuffin, and Maine Coons. Both purebreds and mixed breeds can produce a tortoiseshell coat that's either short- or long-haired.
RELATED: 15 Reasons Why Cats Make the Best Pets
When it comes to fur, the most common coat style is mosaic — a tortoiseshell cat with the traditional color combination mixed randomly together. On the other hand, a chimera describes a tortoiseshell cat that is one color on one side of its body and a different color on the other side. It can happen on the face or throughout the entire body.
In addition to a tortoiseshell cat's fur needing to be particular colors and then classified as mosaic or chimera, their coat can also be categorized as bridled or patched. If the colors in a tortie's coat appear to be woven together, it's bridled. But if colors appear in large sections all over the body, then it's patched.
Because tortoiseshell cats are made up of different breeds (and those breeds may differ from cat to cat), their lifespan and weight vary. One of the oldest torties was named Marzipan who lived to be 21-years-old. She arrived as a kitten at the Astor Theatre in Melbourne, Australia, where she became a popular fixture. Aussies were sadden by her passing in 2013 from a "long illness."
RELATED: 25 Adorable Cat Quotes That Perfectly Describe Your Kitten
If you ever spot a tortoiseshell cat, it's most definitely a female. It's important to know that the female sex chromosome (X) carries the gene for orange or black coat colors. With two X chromosomes, females can have both orange and black coloring in their fur and males can only be either or, but not both colors needed for the tortoiseshell fur. Almost all tortoiseshell cats are female!
RELATED: 50+ of the Cutest Cat Names for Every Type of Kitten
But there have been recorded instances of tortoiseshell cats being male, caused by a genetic mutation. About 1 in 3,000 tortoiseshell cats are male making them incredibly rare. These cats are known to be sterile and may have health issues throughout their lives.
When speaking about tortoiseshell cats, their alleged "tortitude" always comes up. Cats are called out for their feistiness, but it seems torties are on a whole different level. They are recognized as being the divas of the cat world  for their strong-willed and fiercely independent nature. But there is no real proof that tortoiseshell cats actually have more attitude than the average kitty.
Tortoiseshell cats have made their mark in myths and folklore. In Scotland and Ireland, it’s considered good luck when a male tortoiseshell cat enters a home. In the US, they're referred to as “money cats.” The Khmers of Southeast Asia believe that tortoiseshell cats came from “the blood of a young goddess born of a lotus flower."  Bringing one of these cats onto a boat can give protection against storms and ghosts, according to Japanese fishermen.
It's true, there are subcategories within tortoiseshell cats. A torbie has tortoiseshell colors with a tabby striped pattern. While a calico has primarily white fur with tortoiseshell colored patches (black, red, and orange) throughout its body.
RELATED: 40 Black Cat Names That Are Just as Adorable as Your New Kitty
Selena is the entertainment and news editor for Good Housekeeping, where she covers the latest on TV, movies and celebrities. In addition to writing and editing entertainment news, she also spotlights the Hispanic and Latinx community through her work. She is a graduate of CUNY Hunter College with a B.A. in journalism and creative writing.
AKC Reveals Its Most Popular Dog Breeds List
More Raw Cat Food Is Being Recalled by the FDA
The Best Air Purifiers for Pets
Vets Say to Look Out for These Bird Flu Symptoms
FDA Announces Recall on Cat Food Over Bird Flu
Avoid These Easter Toxins for Pets
Spring Cleaning Tips for Cat Owners
Alex Loves These Food Bowls for Her Pup George
6 Significant Dog Collar Colors, Explained
Kid-Friendly Cat Breeds the Family Will Love
A Vet Reveals Crucial Winter Safety Tips for Dogs
These Disney-Inspired Dog Names Are Magical
--------------------------------------------------
