Get a quote by answering a few simple questions
Find out more about our dog insurance policy
Whether you have two dogs, two cats, one of each or more. You can quote for for multiple pets and get 5% discount.
"Beast"

Lifespan: 14-16 Years
Avg height: 25-30cm
Avg weight: 3-4kg
Coat type: Short, smooth, glossy coat.
Coat colours: Black and tan.
Originally bred for: Hunting small rodents.
Breed traits: Inquisitive, playful, reserved, gentle.

The English Toy Terrier (also known as the Toy Manchester Terrier) is playful, gentle and sensitive. Whilst occasionally timid and reserved, the English Toy Terrier has retained its hunting instincts and loves to chase and explore.
The English Toy Terrier may be predisposed to health conditions such as: Von Willebrand's disease, Cardiomyopathy, Legg-Perthes, Hypothyroidism, Patellar Luxation, Deafness and Progressive Retinal Atrophy.
Provide assurance for your dogs health
Provide assurance for your cats health
Tips and articles on how to better take care of your dog
“I’ve never had such a good experience with an insurance company. Such a good experience during such a difficult time”.  – Sandra, owner of Ide in NSW.
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The English Toy Terrier (Black & Tan) is a small breed dog known for its distinctive glossy black coat with rich tan markings. This breed is also known as the Toy Manchester Terrier in the United States and is a descendant of the larger Manchester Terrier. It's known for its alert, affectionate, and intelligent disposition. English Toy Terriers have a rich history dating back to 19th century England. Originally bred for ratting, their speed and agility made them excellent hunters in urban environments. During the Victorian era, they became popular companions due to their small size, elegance, and unique coloration. Despite a decline in their popularity in the early 20th century, dedicated breeders managed to revive the breed. It's recognized by the UK Kennel Club as a vulnerable native breed, which means there are fewer than 300 new English Toy Terrier (Black & Tan) registrations each year in the UK.
English Toy Terriers, also called Manchester Terriers, can suffer from degenerative myelopathy and progressive rod-cone degeneration. Genetic testing for these and other conditions such as hyperuricosuria  can assist veterinarians with diagnosis and proactive care, as well as help breeders identify affected and carrier dogs.
English Toy Terriers are known for their lively, alert, and intelligent character. They are typically good with children and can get along well with other dogs if properly socialized. They're affectionate with their families and can be quite protective. Due to their terrier nature, they are likely to chase small animals and may not be suitable for homes with small pets like rodents or birds. They can be a bit reserved with strangers, so early socialization is crucial.
Despite their toy classification, English Toy Terriers retain much of their terrier tenacity and can be fearless, agile, and fast.In the 19th century, English Toy Terriers were often used in a popular, but inhumane, sport known as rat-baiting where bets were placed on how quickly a dog could kill all the rats in a pit.English Toy Terriers have a distinctive "candle flame" ear shape – this is a unique characteristic of the breed.
https://www.thekennelclub.org.uk/search/breeds-a-to-z/breeds/toy/english-toy-terrier-black-tan/  https://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/manchester-terrier-toy/ https://www.purina.co.uk/find-a-pet/dog-breeds/english-toy-terrier-black-and-tanhttps://www.fci.be/en/nomenclature/ENGLISH-TOY-TERRIER-BLACK-TAN-13.htmlhttps://vgl.ucdavis.edu/breed/english-toy-terrier?page=1
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Toy terriers are a group of toy breeds of dog. Breeds within this group include:
--------------------------------------------------
Other name: 
                English toy terrier Black and Tan
The English Toy Terrier is an energetic, smart breed, who is also very affectionate and loyal to its owners. They are understood to be the oldest, native, toy breed and are quite difficult to find. This good-natured breed are quite playful and love to please their owners. However, as with most terriers, they have a high prey drive and might not get along with other pets and small animals.
Life expectancy
The English Toy Terrier (Black & Tan) has a life expectancy of between 11 and 13 years
Temperament
Size
Adult size
Adult weight
The dog’s coat is always Black and Tan coloured. The tan shade being a rich chestnut brown and the black, a dark ebony shade. The colours must be clearly defined and not run into each other.
Short-haired.
The English Toy Terrier sports a close-hair, glossy coat.
Dark to black eye colour.
Purchase price
The English Toy Terrier (Black & Tan) costs between £515 and £930
The English Toy terrier, is currently recognised by the UK Kennel Club, as a vulnerable, native breed. Because of this, great emphasis is being placed on the breed to boost the dogs’ popularity. It is hoped that the more people learn and understand about the fabulous and appealing characteristics and personalities of the breed, then numbers will increase. If you wish to obtain one of these charming pups, you will have to register your interest with a breeder and be included on a waiting list.
This breed of toy dogs dates back to the 15th century, according to historic records. However, it gained in popularity around the 1800’s when they were used as ratters. The country was overrun with these vermin, and the little dogs did a fantastic job of keeping their numbers low. At this time, they were called Miniature Black and Tan terriers, until 1960, when the breed title was changed to the English Toy terrier.
In later years, breeders were known to interbreed dogs in an attempt to produce the smallest dog. This however, resulted in many congenital and hereditary health conditions and the reduction in terrier breed numbers.
Group 3 - Terriers
Section 4 : Toy Terriers
On the whole, the English Toy terrier is a friendly little character, affectionate and totally devoted to his family. Many of the Toy breed dogs are bred as lap dogs or small companion dogs who love attention.
These small terriers have a very playful side to their personality. Although sometimes quite cheeky and mischievous, they love to entertain when the mood takes them.
As a member of the terrier breed, albeit the toy group, he has inherited some of the feisty, terrier temperament and isn’t often rested and calm.
Certainly a very intelligent breed, always willing to please their owner. If they receive one-to-one attention during their training periods, which they love, they do very well at quickly picking up new tasks. However, this also means that they’re capable of picking up bad behaviours and habits too.
As is the norm with terrier breeds with a high prey drive, they love to chase almost anything that runs in front of them.
In some cases, the English Toy terrier can be quite aloof when unknown visitors are in his home. However, this can often be remedied with early socialisation from a young age.
Very clever dogs, they are also fast learners. Incidentally, they do like to think for themselves and can also be quite stubborn and mischievous at times. This is often true among many of the terrier breeds.
Although the English Toy terrier isn’t as active as some other small dog breeds, he isn’t happy when left on his own for long periods. These small, affectionate canines form strong bonds with their family, and love being around them and involved in the family activities.
As these small terriers are such independent thinkers, it is important that they are trained and socialised early. As with many other sensitive breeds, he’s not too happy with harsh words or reprimands when training. You will probably discover that this high-energy, lively little dog will respond better to positive reinforcement methods, which will bring out the best in him.
These small dogs tend to like hearing their own voices and barking is quite a common occurrence with the English Toy terrier.
You will find that any terrier with an independent streak, think they know their own mind and will happily wander off. Add to this mix his inbuilt hunting instinct, and it just takes one sniff of a scent and he will be off without a backward glance at you.
If this dog is denied the attention he craves, he can be quite destructive around the home. As a loving, yet curious pup, he needs to be close to his family for the majority of the day. If left alone, without company, he can show quite destructive tendencies.
This small terrier dog is prone to greed and it’s very easy for him to put on extra weight. Care must be taken to offer a diet higher in fibre and lower in protein and that he isn’t overfed.
The English Toy terrier is generally on the alert to what is going on around him. Because of this, they make great watchdogs, often barking at everything, not just because he likes the sound of his own voice. However, because of their small size, this terrier isn’t going to make a guard dog to defend you and your property.
As these small terriers are such independent thinkers, it is important that they are trained and socialised early. As with many other sensitive breeds, he’s not too happy with harsh words or reprimands when training. You will probably discover that this high-energy, lively little dog will respond better to positive reinforcement methods, which will bring out the best in him.
English Toy terriers are very adaptable dogs and assuming they receive plenty of mental stimulation on a daily basis, to stop them becoming bored, and sufficient exercise each day, they will be just as content living in a flat, as in a large house. Of course, they will be even happier if they have a small amount of outside space to run around and play.
This small dog breed is less active than some other terrier breeds. His exercise needs are likely to be met with just one short walk each day, providing he receives playtime activities too. Ideally, between 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity each day will help to support an obedient, well-rounded dog.
This Black and Tan Toy terrier is small enough to travel in the boot of a car, and likewise, on public transport. He is certainly the correct size to be carried and in fact enjoys nothing better than being in his master’s arms.
Providing the cat and the young English Toy terrier are cohabiting together from a young age, they will get along fine together. However, anything smaller than a cat and the terrier is going to presume its prey, and that it needs to be chased and hunted down.
As with living with a feline, if socialised together from the puppy stage, this terrier will get along just fine with other canines.
This affectionate and loyal dog breed just loves to play with children. It can be an excellent pet choice for an older child, but care must be taken with a younger toddler, who may handle the tiny puppy rather roughly. The English Toy terrier absolutely loves interactive games but make sure you supervise when dogs and kids are together, to ensure things don’t get too excitable.
This very companionable, loyal dog has an easy temperament and although he would love the friendship and care provided by an elderly owner, he much prefers to be busy and on the go. Because of this, he is more suited to people who spend more time outdoors.
These people-orientated and amenable little dogs are a brilliant choice for first pets. They love nothing better than to entertain and please their owner.
The average price of a KC registered, English Toy terrier is around the £930 mark and £515 for a dog not registered at the KC.
In addition, when you take into account the feeding costs to provide a good quality, nutritious dog food, either wet or dry, this can mount up to between £20 and £30 each month. Then you need to factor in the cost of either spaying or neutering the pup when they are old enough, plus annual health checks, vaccinations and annual boosters, together with pet insurance cover and the average monthly cost is between £50 to £80.
Average
This canine breed shed their hair throughout the year, but as the hair is quite short, it shouldn’t pose too much of a problem.
The Black and Tan Toy terrier has a dense, short coat that doesn’t take a lot to groom and keep him looking well.  A quick brush of his coat, once a week, and then a polish over with a chamois leather cloth. will keep his hair in pristine condition. His ears also need an inspection on a regular basis, to make sure they are clean and without any wax build-up.
When properly cared for and given a good quality, nutritious diet, the average life expectancy of this terrier breed is between 11 to 13 years.
As dogs that have been bred and used to chase and kill vermin, they need to be fearless, stubborn and alert.
As the English Toy terrier has a relatively short coat, he doesn’t cope too well in extreme temperatures. Be aware that he can suffer from heat stress during the hot, summer months. However, one great advantage is that this little dog loves to swim, and he will dive into the water to cool down whenever he is too warm.
With his naturally fine coat hair, he certainly feels the cold when the temperatures fall. You will possibly even discover that he doesn’t enjoy going outside for toilet duties in the chilly winter weather. A coat might be advisable to keep him warm.
Many small terrier-size dogs can very easily gain weight if they are fed too often and don’t receive sufficient, active, daily exercise. Toy lap dogs also tend to receive too many dog treats, which doesn’t help with their weight control.
Oh no... 
 There are no English Toy Terrier (Black & Tan) adoption profiles at the moment...
Is the English Toy Terrier (Black & Tan) right for you?
Whatsapp
Messenger
Facebook
Accept cookies for a better browsing experience
After refusing cookies:
You can change your choice by clicking on “Accept cookies” at the bottom of the page.
--------------------------------------------------
Belonging to the Toy breed
category, the English Toy Terrier is an extremely devoted and loyal dog, yet
quite rare and listed as a vulnerable
breed. They love attention and adore being part of a family, blending right into
family life. Unlike most Terriers, they are not hyperactive. The English
Toy Terrier is only moderately active and will enjoy chilling out on your lap
as much as they enjoy joining in games or going for a walk. With the breed barely
reaching 8 pounds in weight, you have a small dog that is very adapted to living in
an apartment or a small home. They
are good with children although they can get upset by rough play, so children
should be taught to be gentle and respectful.
This dog likes to be part of the family; they thrive on attention, dislike being
alone for too long, and love cuddles. Good looking, lovely by nature, and a
great companion,  the English Toy Terrier
is a real heart stealer.


The English Toy Terrier has an elegant appearance and looks like a new breed, although this dog can track their roots back to the 16th century. Gentlemen hunters carried this little dog in their pockets, and they would set them down once the prey was cornered, using them to flush out foxes and other game. Another use for this dog was for the sport of rat pitting. This involved the dog being set loose in an enclosed area with a large number of rats and spectators bet on how quickly the dog could kill them all. The sport was outlawed in 1898, so from then onward this little dog became more of a companion dog than anything else. As dog fanciers bred them smaller and smaller, the offspring
of the  English Toy Terrier suffered many health problems. As a
result of these problems, the popularity
of the dog waned, and they began to
disappear. Only the efforts of a few dedicated breeders who worked to increase
the health and strength of the dog kept them from going extinct. 
The  English Toy Terrier became popular in the conformation show
ring, with its elegant appearance making them a favorite. During the 1920s, the Kennel Club split the
breed by their size, with the larger dog becoming the Manchester Terrier, and
the smaller dog the Miniature Black and Tan Terrier. It wasn't until
the 1960s that the name English Toy Terrier was adopted.
The  English Toy Terrier has had a rocky past, bouncing into popularity, then discarded,  and then back into the limelight again. Let's
hope that it is finally here to stay and we get to enjoy the company of this
interesting little Terrier.

The best way to describe
the English Toy Terrier is that they are very petite and well
proportioned. They have a striking appearance with their close, dense coat of black and tan. These
colors should form clean, clear lines.  Other areas of the tan color are on the front and back legs
around the knee area. They have a pointed muzzle, and their teeth meet in a scissors bite. The eyes are dark in color
and almond shaped. The ears are placed high on their head and are very pointed
and erect, giving the dog an inquisitive stance. The English Toy Terrier
has a body that is slightly longer than it is high, and has a long thin tail that is carried low. These small dogs have a
narrow but deep chest, and a fine arched neck. The legs are slender on this
breed, with small, compact, and arched feet. The official permitted color of
this breed is black with defined tan markings on the face, legs and chest.
Alert and inquisitive, the English Toy Terrier is a dog with a larger than
life personality and is a canine who is agile, happy and a real people pleaser.
The English Toy Terrier
is very easy to care for with their short dense coat that fits like a glove.
They look well tailored in their black and tan coat, with not a hair out of
place. This dog may be small but they are intelligent, intensely loyal,
affectionate and a great companion. They do need to have company as they tend to
suffer separation anxiety if they are left alone for too long. Because of this trait, they can enjoy the attention that the grooming process allows. A good brushing once or twice a week should keep this
little pooch looking dapper, and a rub down with a soft damp cloth will keep
their coat clean. Save a bath for when they really need it, and use dog
preparations such as shampoo specifically formulated to save the natural oils in their skin. These
little dogs can have some skin or allergy issues, so use very mild, gentle
products to avoid disturbing the skin's balance. Other maintenance steps are
keeping their teeth brushed twice or three times a week, checking their ears
for signs of infection, and trimming their toenails. Once that's done, it's time
for a cuddle and maybe a doggie treat for your affectionate English Toy
Terrier.
Warm, loving and affectionate
are the traits of the English Toy Terrier, along with curiosity,
intelligence, and a tendency at times to
be a little stubborn if they can't have their way.
Therefore, training is important for this little dog to overcome this
personality glitch and become a well mannered dog. They do respond well to
training as long as you are patient and kind, and if the training is interesting. Bored English Toy Terriers
tend to wander and get into mischief. They make ideal family pets and will play happily with children as
long as they are not too rough. They adapt beautifully to apartment living and do not bark much, which will help when living in a populated building. While they
can be left alone, it doesn't pay to leave them for too long as a bored dog is
a mischievous dog. Plus, this little dog loves human company and will pine for
their owners. They adore your attention, the patting and the snuggling.
The English Toy Terrier is ideal for people on their own, or for the family
environment. Ensure this little dog gets
plenty of socializing in the form of walks with the opportunity to meet other dogs and their
owners, or they may grow up fearful of
strangers. They will proudly go walking with you and do best on a leash.
Sometimes that curious nature can lead to trouble, so the leash ensures you have control. Warm and loving,
the English Toy Terrier is well suited as a companion dog.
The English Toy Terrier
is not as lively as some Terrier breeds. This dog is quite happy with a walk
once a day, and a game or two at home, perhaps chasing a ball or the children!
Other than that, they are happy to climb onto your lap for a cuddle session
followed by sleep. A daily walk around
the neighborhood or to the dog park is a wonderful opportunity to socialize
your dog. Ensure they meet plenty of other people and dogs, so they grow confident around humans and canines alike. Keep
this little dog on a leash; they are very inquisitive and may take off after
other small, fast moving animals, as they
were bred originally to be a hunter's aid. They will love a selection of toys to
play with at home, and when the children come back from school this little dog
will help them with their homework and their afternoon tea if they can get away
with it! The English Toy Terrier is a proper little character, adorable
and affectionate, and a peoples dog who loves - well - people!
Written by a Golden Labrador Retriever lover
          
          Jean Brewer
Published: 04/04/2018, edited: 02/24/2021
More articles by Jean Brewer
I have had 3 of these over the years and would love to have another
--------------------------------------------------
