Cat Breeds
Also known as the Ankara cat, the Turkish Angora has a marvelous personality to match its stunning appearance. Highly intelligent, just a little bit talkative, and beloved for their tendency to develop complete devotion for their favorite person, these cats like to be in the middle of everything, often watching the action without actually joining in.
Of course, Turkish Angora cats do have a playful streak, curiously investigating cupboards, drawers, empty boxes, and everything else they can find their way into. They love games of chase, and can even learn to play fetch. The more you praise a Turkish Angora and applaud their antics, the happier they'll be and the stronger your bond will become.
The Turkish Angora is one of a few breeds that enjoy water. These cats have a fondness for faucets, and given the opportunity, will happily accompany their people into the shower or sit on the side of the bathtub, perhaps dipping a paw to create mesmerizing ripples. Some individuals have even been known to swim!
Although the Turkish Angora cat enjoys attention, members of this breed are a bit less demanding than some other breeds like the Siamese and Oriental Shorthair. As long as Turkish Angoras have plenty of toys to keep them entertained throughout the day, they're fine with spending time on their own and will greet you with great enthusiasm when you return from a long day at work.
Turkish Angora cats don't have any special nutritional needs, however it's best to offer a high-quality food that contains real meat or real fish as the number one ingredient. You might want to look for a brand that incorporates additional omega fatty acids to support skin and coat health.
Despite having a medium-long coat, the Turkish Angora does a fairly good job of keeping itself groomed. Since Turkish Angora cats have single coats with no heavy undercoat, they are not prone to developing mats. Of course, you're welcome to offer a daily brushing, which your cat will appreciate. Not only is this a great opportunity to bond with your cat, you'll catch any small tangles.

Turkish Angora cats love to play, particularly when others get involved. These cats love to chase balls and catnip mice, and they're fond of teaser wands, too. You'll want to treat your Turkish Angora to a cat tree that satisfies their instinctual need to climb, and they'll certainly appreciate other cat furniture, such as scratching posts and window seats. A well-stocked basket of toys will keep your Turkish Angora entertained.
As a natural cat breed, the Turkish Angora is generally healthy. A few rare conditions can affect Turkish Angoras, including ataxia, an inherited condition that is autosomal recessive. Affected kittens display tremors and typically do not survive to adulthood.
Some Turkish Angora cats (usually male) develop a heart condition called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) at middle age. In addition, some Turkish Angoras, particularly those with white coats and blue eyes or odd-colored eyes, are born deaf, or with deafness in the ear on the same side as the blue eye.
The Turkish Angora cat evolved naturally in the mountains of Turkey many hundreds of years ago. The earliest written records of the breed trace back to France in the 1500s. Long-haired cats made their way to Britain and France as early as the late 1500s, coming from Russia, Persia, and Turkey. It's likely that some of these were Turkish Angoras.
In the early 20th century, European cat fanciers and breeders bred Angora cats to other long-haired breeds, including Persians. Before long, so much interbreeding had taken place that purebred Turkish Angora cats nearly became extinct. The cats were impossible to find outside of Turkey, where the breed is considered to be a national treasure.
In the early 1900s, Turkey's government and the Ankara Zoo developed a breeding program aimed at preserving the Angora cat breed. White Angora cats with blue eyes, gold eyes, or odd eyes (one blue eye and one eye in green, green-gold, or amber) were a main focus of the breeding program.
In 1962, a U.S. Army colonel named Walter Grant was stationed in Turkey. He and his wife exported a pair of Turkish Angora cats to the United States. These cats came with pedigrees and interest in the breed grew rapidly. Even though it was difficult to import Angora cats, more breeders joined the effort and these beautiful cats once again proliferated in the West.
The Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) accepted Turkish Angora cats for registration in 1968, and in 1970, allowed provisional competition. In 1972, CFA granted the Turkish Angora championship status; however, this only applied to white Angoras. In 1978, CFA accepted all Turkish Angora cat colors for championship. All CFA Angora cats must have lineage that can be traced back to Turkey. Today, the Turkish Angora is recognized by major cat registries worldwide.
The Turkish Angora cat is believed to be one of the first cat breeds to develop long hair.
Many Turkish Angoras are pure white, but the breed comes in many different colors and patterns.
Turkish Angora cats get along very well with other pets, however they have a dominant streak.
At Cats.com, we advocate for cat adoption versus buying from breeders.                            The Turkish Angora, like other purebred cats, is seldom seen in shelters and rescues.
                            Try out our Petfinder tool to explore cats who are either confirmed Turkish Angora or resemble one.                            Remember that many shelters incorrectly label moggies — non-purebred cats — as purebreds.
                            Take a look, and you just might fall in love with a non-purebred rescue cat in need.
                            If you want to purchase a Turkish Angora, consider contacting a local breeder for more information.
Turkish Angora cats cost between $1000 - $2000.
Turkish Angora cats tend to be small in size. A fully grown Turkish Angora cat might weigh between 5-10 pounds or more and range in height anywhere from about 8"- 10" inches tall.
The Average lifespan for Turkish Angora is 15-18 years.
Turkish Angora are long-haired cats, so you do have to expect a certain amount of shedding from this breed, but they don't shed as much as other cat breeds.
I worked in the “Humane” society for 2 weeks, just long enough to find an amazing white turkish angora with a blue and a green eye…or should I say he found me? He virtually hypnotized me the day I met him. He watched me carefully as I passed the window to his room. When I came in to clean his cage he stepped from side to side to allow me to clean it. He never cried out-just stared at me with those mis-matched eyes. I went to my boss and asked how to adopt a cat and she started saying after 30 days I coul- I cut her off-“I mean how can I adopt it today?” I threatened to quit when she started reciting the policy again-and she made a special exception! I quit a week later when I started being asked to euthanize animals. Obviously this cat pulled some strings just to get me the job. He would run across the room as I held my arm out with my fingers like a claw and jump up, holding his weight for 2 seconds on my arm and drop down to the ground and strut away. I’m 6′ tall and he would never leave a scratch! Sadly, I lost him in a blizzard(true story)on our way to California. He apparently had other plans and I have no doubt he knew where he was going.
Thanks for sharing your story of connection with this special kitty!
These don’t look like Turkish Angoras. The faces are all wrong. It looks like you found a couple of white long hair cats and then randomly pick two more long hair cats.
Thank you for the feedback. I’ve passed this along to the team so we can correct the photos.
I understand that many people take their cats very personally, and that is absolutely expected (and wonderful), but creator of this website really provided proper information for breeds that were listed.
Just to say, before getting into Turkish Angora point, me and my family had (and still have) many stray, rescued cats since I can recall, some of these were even badly injured, blind and we took care of them all (and still do for some of our seniors who are still alive – and very old but happy and healthy). We love cats, and we support adoption, and do just that.
However, since Turkish Angora is my personal favourite breed, I also have purebreds, all white, which I legally obtained and payed for, with pedigree and full paperwork from registered, respectable breeders.
 I also own mixed Turkish Angora, also white (with Turkish ancestry from Ankara (from her mother side – she was bred with mixed T.Angora and Maine Coon male, and this breeding resulted with our beautiful cat. She is also obtained from a breeder, but not registered since she is a mixed breed.
My grandma also owned  real Turkish Angora (from Ankara) and we also had a rescue that LOOKED like Turkish Angora, but since it was a rescue, it was a moggie, no papers. All these are/were white. (we are in Europe).
What I wanted to say with all this writing is that there is definitely a difference in appearance and character of purebred Turkish Angora, mixed breeds and moggies.
And (outside Turkey, since they consider all Turkish cats Angoras), only a purebred cat with paperwork can be considered “Turkish Angora” breed (as stated by both our veterinary and by TICA judges. And since these cats are bred to obtain these specific characteristics (both in look and character), they fit well into description that is provided. Just saying, good info is provided here.
We love all our cats the same, but our purebreds are  completely different in character and built, (and also size, how they walk and carry themselves) from our T.A mixed breed and our (possible) T.A. moggie.
Also, when signing Your pet in respectable veterinary clinic and creating pet passport, only cats with paperwork and pedigree can be listed as a specific breed (at least in many countries in Europe). So only our pedigreed Turkish Angoras are “Turkish Angoras” in their passports and medical cart, while our T.A./Maine Coon mix is just as moggie as the rescued moggie that looks like Turkish Angora.
Again, just saying, because no matter if you get a mixed breed of T.A. from a breeder that has no pedigree, from a shelter or from a street, this is still a moggie even if it really looks like T.A. (that is if You don`t get it directly from Turkey which is not really that easy!).And all cats are unique and gorgeous in their appearance and character in their own way, but there is a difference between purebreds and moggies. And again, we love them all the same 🙂
Thank you for the thoughtful and informative comment. 🙂
I’ve been lucky to have found 2 turkish angoras at shelters, one over 10 years ago and I’ve had my current one about 3 years. If they both aren’t turkish angoras, then I’m a monkey’s uncle! They fit the description to a t., no papers to prove it but my 2 all white beauties are show quality angoras in my opinion. I have only one now and pure bred or not, she’s my constant companion and I love her dearly. Everything I’ve read about the breed is true, from their fondness of faucets to their high level of intelligence. Anyone thinking about adopting a turkish angora, don’t hesitate, but be prepared to give this cat the devotion it will give to you.
Mallory,
I appreciate your comment on “long hair” classification. I think breed characteristics are general and if it’s a rescue the are a lot of factors that affect its demeanor, which is most important. I am looking to adopt a deaf TA girl hoping it will enjoy my 2 wonderful boys to pal with and to get some idea of what I might expect in terms of making her a part of our happy family.
I don’t know what kind breed I have .  It color is tabby ginger but it’s fur is getting long has a long tail. He is very friendly and playful. I think he is 3-4 month old also has a long body
Belen, your cat would be considered a domestic longhair, I believe!
they are family after all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Gina,how can a cat be ”part of your family” ? Suppose one of your cats had babies. There were too many to keep, so you gave some away. Then would you say that you were giving away your grandchildren?
I  adopted  a   6-month old  male/neutered   (possible?/mix?)   Turkish  Angora    kitten  (named  “Doc”)   at  a   cat-rescue  a  few  days ago,  now  living  with  us  (total  of  4  days)  with  my 3  other “rescue”  cats  (one:   14  year-old  orange  tabby;   two:    recently  adopted  in   September   2021,   a   2-year-old     female/neutered/mix  Snowshoe;   and  three:   recently   adopted  in  September  2021,  a   6-month  old   female/neutered/mix,    flame-point  Siamese;   &  an  older,   13-year-old)  rescue   long-haired/female/neutered   Dachshund   adopted  in  2009  from  the  SPCA).    All  of  my  critters  get  along  pretty   well  except  that  my  “newest   addition”   (my  possible   Turkish  Angora   male/neutered  male),   enjoys  being  held  by  me  (still a   bit  skittish  but  purrs  loudly  when  petted  and  also   uses   his   litter-box  properly),  and   cruises   around   our  home  and  meets   nose-to-nose  with  our  other   4   pets  without   incident,  but  a   little  bit  of  “hissing”  from  the  other  3   cats.    Also  my   dachshund  thinks  that  he’s  another  “cat”  !!    Anyway,   my  newest   “Turkish  Angora”  kitten   is   learning  “the  lay  of  the  land”  in  my  home  but  I  was  wondering  how   I  can  tell  whether   he  is  a   Turkish  Angora  or   possibly  mostly  a   mix  of  other   long-haired  cats   (i.e.,   part  Persian,  part  Himilayan  ??)  since  his  tail   isn’t   quite   as   full   and   brushy  as   some  of  the photos   I’ve  seen  of   true-to-the-breed   Angora  cats.    His   body  fur  is  extremely   soft  (the  softest  cat  I’ve   ever  held),  and  his  coloring  is  mostly   white  (with  some  grey-colored  patches)  with   both eyes  being  gold  and  somewhat  almond-shaped.    When  I  adopted  him  last  Saturday  (4  days  ago),  he  weighed  7  pounds  (at   age   6  months as  a  kitten),  and  he  is   small-boned  but   looks   much  larger  than  a   6-month-old  kitten  due  to  his   fluffy  hair  throughout  his   body.  I   wasn’t  planning  on  adopting   a   Turkish  Angora   cat   when  visiting  the   “Cat  Rescue”   but  I  think   I’ll  keep  this  beautiful  cat  since  he  is   so  unusual  in  his  fluffiness.   His  tail  is   dark   grey  (all  one  color),  and  also   has    grey    “tabby  markings”   (with  the  “M”  in   grey)  on  his   head.     Could   anyone  share  with  me  what   he/she  knows  about  these  Angora  cats  and   what  I   should  expect   when  raising  him   (for  the  next  15-20  years)?      I   have   owned     (adding  those   sbared   with  my  husband)   a  total  of  10  cats  over  these  past   70   years,   so    this  is   not  my   “first  rodeo”   when  it  comes  to  having  a  cat  in  the  home.      I  also  have   alot   of  patience  when   taking  care  of   these  loving  pets !   Thanks  !
Melinda, the thing with cat breeds is that, unless you have papers, you can’t say that the cat is a purebred, period. And 99% of the time, even the cats we might assume are “mixes” of different breeds simply aren’t. While most of our dogs were bred into existence and, hence, all mutts are crosses of distinct breeds, the practice of selectively breeding cats has only been around for about 50 years. Therefore, the vast majority of felines out there can’t even be considered mixes—they are just, well, cats! I doubt that Doc is some mix of Persian, Himalayan, Turkish Angora, or any other pure breed—such a thing seldom occurs as purebred cats are usually only bred under controlled conditions (with other cats of the same breed) or, if they’re not to be bred, carefully raised, then spayed and neutered. Therefore, I wouldn’t assume that your kitten is a Turkish Angora or a mix at all. Instead, I would call him a domestic longhair—that’s the term we use to describe any non-pedigreed longhaired kitty. Sounds like a great cat and an excellent addition to your crew. Hope this helps you figure things out! 🙂
Mallory, I find your rhetoric absolutely deplorable, as with how the rest of this page talks about the breed of my beloved son Binx. Turkish Angoras range from $1,000-$2,000? Sure, if you’re shopping. I didn’t even know TAs existed until I got my 1½ yo neutered black male for free from a friend who was moving across the country and couldn’t take Binx with him after adopting him from a local shelter. I’ve never seen such a handsome or intelligent cat until I took him in, and he quickly chose me as his favorite person, he’s glued to my side and I have to be careful of whatever room I’m in, as he tries (and succeeds) to climb on absolutely everything, which can (and does) lead to breakage of various decorations — but he’s a cat, after all, and it’s not his fault he’s such a little adorable tornado.
Anyway, while it certainly would’ve been nice to know what I was getting into with this breed before I adopted him, I was not in the market for a TA, or a cat, or even really a pet at all — I wanted a non-human companion, and Binx plays that role perfectly. I never cared (and still don’t) what breed he is, and while I can understand why a buyer such as yourself would (thousands of dollars certainly aren’t cheap — well, to a person like me, anyway. It might just be pocket change for you), I find it disgusting that people like you see not a lovely animal, but a price tag and the exact specifications that come along with that obligation to fill the demand.
ADOPT, DON’T SHOP — in terms of everything, not only living creatures, but also in terms of choosing to adopt secondhand goods (for example, my neighbor across the street is moving away and put an entire set of pots and pans on the side of the road for free, among lamps and garden accessories; although, had she charged a price, I would have paid without hesitation to accept her belongings rather than order new cookware when perfectly fine utensils already exist in the world and don’t require a mountain to be blown up for resources, but rather social relationships and a bit of luck, patience, and observation) rather than brand-new items. Clothing, furniture, transportation (given of course that it’s reliable), plants, pets, and beyond are all much cheaper and much more rewarding to own, because you’re not only adopting something old and otherwise unwanted (such as my friend’s dog Sugar or old books my older sibling turns into artwork), but you’re also adopting the history and memories of others and allowing them to live on appreciated where they otherwise will be neglected and abused, and therefore becoming more enmeshed with the communities around you, no matter where you are or how long you’ve been there.
If you have paperwork showing how inbred your cat is, congratulations I suppose, and congratulations for having the money and resources required to obtain such a rare and coveted breed. But I hope when you look at the things around you, you see not status, but the fruits of your labor in cultivating them and allowing them to show their true value and potentials. I hope you see memories, both good and bad, and the faces of those people and pets and plants who surround you. I hope you see windows showing glimpses into the lives of others around you, not mirrors merely reflecting you back at yourself entirely unchanged. And I hope you can forgive yourself for funding the cruelty of the breeding industry, and of those industries which exploit human beings in other nations to provide you with your bread and circuses. I hope you can bring yourself to face them and join in their liberation and celebration of life, as imperfect and worthwhile as it is.
I realize that a lot of people have gotten the impression that I or this site doesn’t view non-papered purebreds as legitimate; this isn’t true…my prior comments related only to the technicalities of the matter given the rarity of purebred cats and mixes and the “official” definition of a purebred cat. I think you’re right about adoption, the real value of individuals, and the virtue of taking in used items, and I’m 100% changing the way I talk about breeds at this point. Thank you for the very thoughtful comment.
Thank you so much, Mallory — not just for taking the time to read and reply to my comment, but also to clear up your own views to prevent future misunderstandings. Above all else, I appreciate your openness to changing your mind; it’s a rare quality these days (even I struggle to confront old ideas I haven’t examined or thought about in quite some time).
I hope I haven’t come across too aggressive (just passionate) in my previous comment; I’m just increasingly disillusioned to the needlessly wasteful culture of individuality and instant gratification (leading to people shopping over adopting, including the other items I mentioned), especially given that it’s often less effort to just buy new, and so a lot of people (myself included — an example of an idea I’m trying to confront myself) tend to think of Amazon before they think of their local flea market/thrift shop/garage sale.
It’s just that when it comes to animal breeding, my mind always goes to CAFOs/factory farms (their impact on not only the workers/environment, but even consumers, either leading kids to enter puberty at younger ages or making everyone more susceptible to diseases through antibiotic resistance and exposure to zoonotic diseases such as the culprit behind the current pandemic), the spider morph ball python’s neurological issues, and the thorough curriculum vitae of the YouTuber Kitten Lady as she fosters kittens with various conditions and advocates for how these issues can be prevented (mostly through funding shelters, spaying/neutering cats, and not providing a demand for new animals).
Of course. Being willing to shift my perspective and recognize when I’m wrong is one of my top priorities. Imagine always having to dig your heels into the mud and pretend it didn’t happen when you made a mistake—there’s no improving that way. You didn’t come across as overly aggressive. Your passion adds a lot to the conversation here, and you’ve even managed to help solidify some concerns that have been swimming around in my mind for a while. Thank you for that, and I’m sure others visiting the site will find it helpful as well. All the best to you and your Binx.
Mine doesn’t have as bushy a tail either and she’s all white smooth as butter but she hits all of these characteristics personality wise and her front legs are stubby
I took my little lady home with me about two months ago,  my mom adopted her eight years ago when she was 7yrs old.  Now she adores my husband and I but is a complete terror with my 6 other cats, although she appears to like one of them, who is the only one that matches her coloring lol   She has decided to rule the house from her main territory, the kitchen.  She was extremely skinny when we got her,  you could feel every rib and vertebrae when you petted her – I think she’s got a hyper thyroid and appears to be deaf.  However she is starting to put on a little weight now and is very happy with her new mom and dad,.  She’s affectionate with us, doesn’t mind being picked up and carried around, when she’s in the mood for it.   She eats like a crocodile.  Mom said she only ate Fancy Feast  but she now appears to love boiled chicken more than anything else — yes, we grocery shop and cook for our cats lol  I am a domestic zoo keeper and proud of it – they are family after all.  We were never able to have children.
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Aymara Herrera, Shutterstock
Last Updated on January 16, 2025 by Catster Editorial Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
Nicknamed the “Border Collie of the cat world,” the Turkish Angora is not a breed that’s easy to forget once you’ve met one. You might not be familiar with them because they’re less well-known in the United States, but the Turkish Angora is worth introducing. Keep reading for all the facts and information about this unique cat.
Length:
9–14 inches
Weight:
5–10 pounds
Lifespan:
15–20 years
Colors:
White, black, blue, red, cream, and patterns including tabby, spotted, and bicolor
Suitable for:
Households with kids and other pets, owners who can provide daily mental and physical stimulation
Temperament:
Social, intelligent, energetic, sensitive, good with other pets
The Turkish Angora is believed to be native to central Turkey, with a history dating back hundreds of years. Since the early 20th century, the Ankara Zoo in Turkey has maintained a breeding program for the cats and protected them from near extinction. With their silky coats and outgoing personalities, the Turkish Angora makes a lovely pet.

If you’re looking for a Turkish Angora kitten, your best bet is to find a reputable breeder. All registered Turkish Angoras must be able to trace their ancestry to Turkey, but breeding operations can be found throughout the United States. Turkish Angora cat prices vary based on color, pattern, and quality (show or pet).
Those who prefer to adopt rather than shop can find Turkish Angora rescues. However, you’re likely to find more adult cats than kittens available at rescues or shelters. Most breeders send Turkish Angora kittens to their new homes when they’re 12–16 weeks old. You can expect a Turkish Angora kitten to be extremely active and playful.
Because they’re light and fine-boned, try not to let your kitten jump from great heights or perform other high-impact activities. You can take advantage of your Turkish Angora kitten’s natural intelligence and start training routines early. The cats are social by nature, but exposing your kitten to different people, pets, and situations will help them be more accepting of change as they grow older.

Turkish Angoras are intelligent felines and incredibly friendly. Because of their boundless energy, they thrive with active families and require adequate exercise and enrichment to keep them happy. Their intelligence helps with training, but they bond closely with owners like dogs and may act out if left alone for too long.
The affectionate, loyal Turkish Angora bonds closely with their human family. Their active, playful nature makes them a good fit for families with older kids. However, because they aren’t the sturdiest of breeds, they may not be the best choice for families with toddlers or kids who don’t know how to handle a cat gently.
Turkish Angora cats enjoy socializing, so they’re a good match for families who frequently have guests over. However, they don’t enjoy being left alone, so families who are rarely home may not be a suitable match. The Turkish Angora needs more attention than some other breeds, which is another factor for busy families to consider.
The Turkish Angora’s social nature also extends to other four-footed family members. They tend to get along with dogs and other cats. However, it’s best to supervise interactions with dogs, especially large ones, to ensure the kitty’s safety.
The Turkish Angora personality can be quite dominant and they prefer to be “in charge” of the animal family. They may clash with other assertive dogs or cats, so you may need to spend more time allowing the household pets to get used to the Turkish Angora.
Allowing a Turkish Angora to interact with birds, reptiles, or small exotic pets is unsafe. The cat is likely to view the animals as either fun toys or delicious prey, neither of which end well for the smaller pets.

Before searching for a Turkish Angora to adopt, you can study some of the vital factors to consider, including their food and diet requirements, below.
Turkish Angoras require a nutritionally balanced feline-specific diet. To ensure they receive all the nutrients they need, you can select a formula designed for their current life stage—kitten, adult, or senior. Ask your veterinarian to help you calculate how many calories your cat needs each day.
Because they’re so energetic, Turkish Angoras burn more calories than less active breeds. However, they need to stay at a healthy weight due to their delicate frame. Extra weight puts too much strain on their joints.
Knowing that Turkish Angoras are compared to Border Collies should give you an idea of how much energy they have! They need plenty of space to run, climb, and play. It’s best to provide them with cat trees, shelves, or perches for vertical space.
Turkish Angora cats should have a variety of toys to play with, especially ones that allow them to use their instincts, like stalking and pouncing. Spend time playing with your cat daily to ensure they exercise enough to stay fit and happy.
Turkish Angoras are known for their intelligence and curiosity. Combined with their strong bond with humans, they are typically easier to train than other cats. You can use positive, reward-based training methods for the best results.
Besides the usual litter training, Turkish Angoras can learn basic commands and tricks. Since they enjoy being the life of the party anyway, why not teach them fun tricks to entertain friends at your next get-together?
Training will also help prevent the Turkish Angora from developing bad habits. Mental stimulation will keep the active feline occupied and avoid destructive behavior due to boredom.
The beautiful, flowing coat is one of the defining Turkish Angora characteristics. They don’t have an undercoat, and their hair is very fine. You can control shedding and prevent tangles by brushing one or two times weekly.
During warm months, you may need to increase the brushing frequency. Also, it’s vital to keep your cat’s nails trimmed to prevent them from getting snagged and torn as they climb and play. Check and clean their ears as needed and provide regular preventative dental care.
Generally, the Turkish Angora is considered a healthy breed. As you are researching prospective breeders, ask about any health issues in the family history of their cats. Turkish Angoras can suffer from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which is a common heart condition among purebred cats. White-coated, blue-eyed Turkish Angoras are often deaf due to an inherited trait.
Male Turkish Angora cats are generally a bit larger than females, but there are few behavioral differences in fixed males and females. Unneutered males are typically more active and assertive and may engage in behaviors like territorial marking. Female cats will go into heat at least twice yearly and may be moody and vocal during these times.
You can talk to your vet about spaying or neutering your Turkish Angora if you don’t plan to breed them.

In 1520, a longhaired white cat came to Europe from Ankara, Turkey, the native home of the Turkish Angora. Before the Turkish Angora could gain popularity, the Persian cat arrived to steal the attention. The Turkish Angora nearly went extinct in Europe but was saved by breeders in Turkey.
To save the Turkish Angora, the Ankara Zoo developed a breeding program in 1917 that continues today. In the 1960s, an American couple vacationing in Turkey spotted Turkish Angora cats on display at the zoo and fell in love with the breed. They convinced the zoo to give up a breeding pair of cats and brought them back to the United States.
Turkish Angora cats not only like to climb but also prefer to observe the world from above. You can often find them perched on top of cabinets and refrigerators. Some Turkish Angoras will even ride on their owner’s shoulders around the house.

The Turkish Angora is outgoing and affectionate, yet occasionally demanding, and is one of the most interesting purebred cats in the world. They fit easily into families with seniors, older kids, and dogs but don’t expect them to appreciate being left alone. If you can provide the attention, exercise, and training the cat needs, the Turkish Angora will offer endless loyalty and love in return.
See Also:
Featured Image Credit: Aymara Herrera, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Catster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Elizabeth Gray is a lifelong lover of all creatures great and small. She got her first cat at 5 years old and at 14, she started working for her local veterinarian. Elizabeth spent more than 20 years working as a veterinary nurse before stepping away to become a stay-at-home mom to her daughter. Now, she is excited to share her hard-earned knowledge (literally--she has scars) with our readers. Elizabeth lives in Iowa with her family, including her two fur kids, Linnard, a husky mix and Algernon, the worldʻs most patient cat. When not writing, she enjoys reading, watching all sports, and spending time outdoors with her family.
perfect pet for my house so the mice walk away  .  I just want to know the cost angora , color white we leave in metuchen nj
this is my number 347-482-6130
Hi Juan, thank you for reading us. We are not breeders, if your heart is fixed in a Turkish Angora you would need to search for a breeder and request a quote directly from them. Best wishes!
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
The Turkish Angora is a captivating and elegant breed known for its long, silky coat, strikingly colored eyes, and graceful demeanor. Originating in Turkey, this breed has a rich history dating back centuries and is often associated with royalty and luxury. Turkish Angoras are medium to large-sized cats with a finely boned and muscular build. Their most distinctive feature is their luxurious, fine-textured coat, which can come in various colors and patterns. Renowned for their intelligence and playful nature, Turkish Angoras are highly interactive, vocally communicative, and enjoy engaging with their human companions. With a sociable and affectionate temperament, these cats also make loving and devoted additions to households that appreciate their beauty and engaging personalities.
The Turkish Angora cat, a breed steeped in mystique and elegance, is a true symbol of feline grace and charm. They are also one of the oldest naturally occurring cat breeds, and their existence is mixed with tales of royalty, mythology, and cultural significance. Ottoman royalty cherished Turkish Angoras, where the breed received the highest regard.
When considering a Turkish Angora, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a cat in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Turkish Angora kitten, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their cats. Reputable Turkish Angora breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their cats, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the kitties.
Some cat breeds are typically independent and aloof, even if they’ve been raised by the same person since kittenhood; others bond closely to one person and are indifferent to everyone else; and some shower the whole family with affection. Breed isn’t the only factor that goes into affection levels; cats who were raised inside a home with people around feel more comfortable with humans and bond more easily.

See Cats Less Affectionate with Family
Click here for more information on this characteristic
If you’re going to share your home with a cat, you’ll need to deal with some level of cat hair on your clothes and in your house. However, shedding does vary among the breeds. If you’re a neatnik, you’ll need to either pick a low-shedding breed or relax your standards. This furniture cover can make it easier to clean up cat hair and keep it off your sofa!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Due to poor breeding practices, some breeds are prone to certain genetic health problems. This doesn’t mean that every cat of that breed will develop those diseases; it just means that they’re at an increased risk. If you’re looking only for purebred cats or kittens, it’s a good idea to find out which genetic illnesses are common to the breed you’re interested in.
See Cats Prone to Health Problems
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cats are perpetual kittens—full of energy and mischief—while others are more serious and sedate. Although a playful kitten sounds endearing, consider how many games of chase the mouse-toy you want to play each day, and whether you have kids or other animals who can stand in as playmates. A classic wand cat toy like this one is perfect for playful felines!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds sound off more often than others with meows, yowls, and chattering. When choosing a breed, think about how the cat vocalizes and how often. If constant “conversation” drives you crazy, consider a kitty less likely to chat.
See Cats with Lower Tendency to Vocalize
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Being tolerant of children, sturdy enough to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs they can dish out, and having a nonchalant attitude toward running, screaming youngsters are all traits that make a kid-friendly cat. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual cat will behave; cats from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences and personality.
See Least Kid Friendly Cats
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Stranger-friendly cats will greet guests with a curious glance or a playful approach; others are shy or indifferent, perhaps even hiding under furniture or skedaddling to another room. However, no matter what the breed, a cat who was exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a kitten will respond better to strangers as an adult.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some breeds require very little in the way of grooming; others require regular brushing to stay clean and healthy. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a cat who needs daily brushing. You should definitely pick up this awesome de-shedding tool for cats of any hair length!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Some cat breeds are reputed to be smarter than others. But all cats, if deprived the mental stimulation they need, will make their own busy work. Interactive cat toys are a good way to give a cat a brain workout and keep them out of mischief. This scratcher cat toy can keep your smart kitty busy even when you’re not home!
Click here for more information on this characteristic
Friendliness toward other household animals and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some cats are more likely than others to be accepting of other pets in the home.
Click here for more information on this characteristic
The longhaired Angora cat is not the source for angora sweaters, although his fur is certainly just as soft and beautiful. This natural breed takes his name from the city of Ankara in Turkey, which was formerly known as Angora.
For centuries, the cats have been attractive souvenirs for invaders of or visitors to Turkey and may have been the first longhaired cats to arrive in Europe. One theory suggests that Vikings brought them from Turkey more than a thousand years ago. The cats eventually became scarce and were saved only through a breeding program originated by the Ankara Zoo.
Angoras were first brought to the United States in 1954. Breeders took an interest in them, but it wasn’t until the mid-1960s that recognition for the breed was sought from the Cat Fanciers Association. The CFA began registering the cats in 1968 and granted full recognition to white Turkish Angoras in 1972. Colored Turkish Angoras were accepted in 1978. Today the cats are recognized by most North American cat registries.
The Turkish Angora is a small to medium-size cat, weighing  5 to 9 pounds.
Beautiful and elegant on the surface, the Turkish Angora can surprise an unsuspecting owner with his athleticism and intelligence. No bookcase is too high for him to reach the top, and no closed door is safe from being opened by his questing paws. While he certainly can have lovely manners, the Turkey, as he is sometimes nicknamed, has an active, boisterous side to his nature, with a cleverness that makes him endlessly entertaining. He likes to play and will do whatever is necessary to get and keep your attention, even if it means getting into a little trouble.
The Angora keeps his kittenlike playfulness well into old age. He is friendly toward guests but loves his own people best. This is a sociable breed who is best suited to a home where he will have another cat or a dog to keep him company if people aren’t home during the day. When you are home, the Angora may drape himself across your shoulders or settle comfortably into your lap. At night you’re likely to find him next to you with his head resting on your pillow.
To live happily with a Turkey, you should have a sense of humor that matches his own, as well as a good store of patience. Once he gets an idea into his head, it can be difficult to change his mind about how he should behave, but he is so charming that you probably won’t care. If you will, it’s best to consider another breed. This is an affectionate, gentle cat who is devoted to his family, but his precocious intelligence, resourcefulness, desire for interaction and play, and short attention span may make him a challenge to live with.
Both pedigreed cats and mixed-breed cats have varying incidences of health problems that may be genetic in nature. Here are common health issues seen in Turkish Angora cats:
The Turkish Angora has a single coat with a silky texture. Because there’s no undercoat to cause mats or tangles, it’s easy to groom with weekly combing or brushing, and it sheds very little. The coat doesn’t achieve its full length until the cat is approximately two years old.
Brush the teeth to prevent periodontal disease. Daily dental hygiene is best, but weekly brushing is better than nothing. Trim the nails every couple of weeks. Wipe the corners of the eyes with a soft, damp cloth to remove any discharge. Use a separate area of the cloth for each eye so you don’t run the risk of spreading any infection.
Check the ears weekly. If they look dirty, wipe them out with a cotton ball or soft damp cloth moistened with a 50-50 mixture of cider vinegar and warm water. Avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of the ear.
Keep the Angora’s litter box spotlessly clean. Cats are very particular about bathroom hygiene, and a clean litter box will also help to keep the long coat clean. It’s a good idea to keep a Turkish Angora as an indoor-only cat to protect him from diseases spread by other cats, attacks by dogs or coyotes, and the other dangers that face cats who go outdoors, such as being hit by a car. Turkish Angoras who go outdoors also run the risk of being stolen by someone who would like to have such a beautiful cat without paying for it.
The Turkish Angora is best known for his long, fine, silky coat, which seems to shimmer as he moves. The length of the coat varies, with the longest hair usually seen in the ruff around the neck, the “britches” on the upper hind legs and the plumed tail.
You may think of an Angora as being solid white, but the coat can also be other solid colors as well as tabby, tortoiseshell, calico or other patterns. Beneath the coat is a body that is firm, long and muscular. Legs are long, with the hind legs being longer than the front legs, and the paws are small, round and dainty, often with tufts of fur between the toes. The long tail tapers from a wide base to a narrow end.
Contributing to the cat’s beauty is a small to medium-size wedge-shaped head with large ears that sit high on the head and are tufted with fur and large almond-shaped eyes that slant slightly upward. The eyes can be blue, green, gold, amber or odd (one blue eye and one green, green-gold or amber eye).
The Angora who has been well socialized is comfortable with kids, making him a good choice for families who will supervise children to make sure they pet the cat nicely and don’t pull his fur or tail. He is happy to live with cat-friendly dogs, too, as long as they recognize that he’s in charge. Introduce pets slowly and in controlled circumstances to ensure that they learn to get along together.
If you’re also looking for a dog, check out DogTime’s dog breed page!
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share

Height:
9 – 10 inches
Weight:
8 – 15 pounds
Lifespan:
12 – 18 years
Colors:
White, smoke, red, cream, blue, black, silver, tortoiseshell, tabby, calico, bi-colored
Suitable for:
Families with children, seniors, and people that are home frequently
Temperament:
Affectionate, intelligent, playful, energetic, adaptable, outgoing, gets along with other pets
The Turkish Angora is a natural domesticated cat breed that’s energetic and loving, so much so that they even seem dog-like. Its ancestry dates back to Ankara, Turkey (formally known as Angora) as far as the 15th century, where it is still considered a national treasure. They are beautiful, intelligent, and have a sense of grace and elegance. And if you have houseguests, they’ll be sure to play host.
They are excellent with children and prefer families that are home most of the time, as they do not do well when left alone. If you already have other pets in the home, the Turkish Angora will get along with them, but they will establish dominance as the alpha pet. They are also great with seniors and love to be involved in any family activities.
Are you intrigued? Read on to find out more about this rare and intelligent cat breed.

A post shared by Питомник Akkedi | Турецкая Ангора | Turkish Angora (@akkedi_angora)

This cat breed needs families that are home. If you’re a single individual who’s always out and about, this breed is not for you. The Turkish Angora can be mischievous if it feels it’s not getting enough attention, and that makes for an unpleasant experience for you both. This breed is highly intelligent, makes for a great companion, and wants nothing more than to be around its humans. Their high intelligence allows them to learn tricks, solve puzzles, and even open cabinets and turn on water faucets. They are not lap cats, nor do they like to be held for very long. They can also be vocal, so they will let you know about it if they’re not happy with you.

The sleek and beautiful longhaired Turkish Angora cat is not only intelligent and fun but also a champion. The Cat Fanciers’ Association (CFA) accepted the white-colored Angora for championship competition in 1972 in the United States, and all other colors were accepted for competition in 1978.
Turkish Sultans gave these elegant cats as gifts to European royalty in the 16th century, and they became highly popular among the privileged European population.
In the early 1900s, this breed almost became extinct. However, in the 1950s, the Ankara Zoo set up a breeding program to preserve these felines. The population prospered, and the rebirth of the Turkish Angora cat began. In 1963, an unrelated pair of cats was reluctantly given to Americans Colonel and Mrs. Walter Grant, which led to breeding in the United States.

As far as intelligence, these cats exceed with the smarts. They can figure out puzzles with ease and even learn to turn doorknobs, open cabinets, and turn on water faucets. They are loyal, energetic, and fun, but not lap cats. These cats are extroverted and would prefer to explore their surroundings rather than lie on a couch. They usually don’t like to be picked up or held, but they may snuggle with you if you’re taking it easy. They are easy-going and adapt to their surroundings quickly.
The Turkish Angora is a dedicated family cat, making them a perfect addition for families with children and even other pets. However, children need to be supervised and instructed not to pull the cat’s fur or tail, which could cause the cat to react violently. They do like to be the center of attention, so be prepared to entertain them when the moment strikes. They are also ideal for seniors because of their affectionate side. They love to be with their families, making them a perfect pet for someone who is home most of the time.
These cats get along with other pets, especially dogs, but they will quickly establish dominance with your other pets. Since they are sociable, they do like to play with other pets. Turkish Angoras add entertainment value because of their prankster side, and your canine will be fair game.

A post shared by Питомник Akkedi | Турецкая Ангора | Turkish Angora (@akkedi_angora)

The Turkish Angora needs high-quality adult cat food, preferably one that aids in keeping their coat healthy and minimizes shedding. Be careful not to overfeed this breed—with their fine bone structure, it’s essential to keep them at a healthy weight to avoid obesity.

A post shared by Cheska Consunji Reyes (@kikaybooba)

These cats love to play and tend to get bored, so having plenty of toys and puzzles is imperative for physical and mental stimulation. Treat dispensing toys are great for this breed because of their intelligence—it will give them something to hunt and get rewarded at the end.
Training should be fun with these intelligent felines because they are such quick learners. They can learn demands and even some tricks. Their outgoing and entertaining personality enables them these abilities, and they want to please their owners.

A post shared by morigirlbora (@morigirlbora)

The Turkish Angora has a long and silky single coat. You should brush them once or twice a week with a fine-toothed comb or slicker brush. They generally don’t mat like other breeds, and they don’t shed quite as much as the average cat. Their coat gets thicker in the winter months, so grooming is a must during this time of year. Surprisingly, the Turkish Angora likes water, so if you need to bathe them, go ahead. Odds are they’ll probably make a game out of it.
The Turkish Angora is pretty healthy due to careful breeding; however, there are some conditions to keep in mind with this breed.
There’s not much difference between the male and the female. One difference we should mention is weight. Males tend to be heavier and taller, but the difference is not significant to even notice.
The Turkish Angora cat is simply one of the best cat breeds around. They have it all—intelligence, charm, grace, devotion, loyalty, energy, sociability, and adaptability. With their almond-shaped eyes, sleek and slender long body, and long silky fur, their appearance is strikingly beautiful. It’s no wonder they are considered a national treasure in their country of origin.
As if their beauty isn’t enough, the Turkish Angora will surely add entertainment to your family and make for a wonderful companion for your other pets; that is, as long as your other pets know that the Turkish Angora is in charge.
The downside to this breed is the slim availability in the U.S.  If you manage to find one, this feline will bring much enjoyment to your family and other pets.
Featured Image Credit: Aymara Herrera, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
Can Cats Eat Kale? Vet-Reviewed Nutrition Facts & FAQ
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Sign up to our newsletter and be the first to find out about new arrivals, exclusive promos and helpful cat-related tips
by signing up to our newsletter you are agreeing to our privacy policy
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Dogs
Cats
Info
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
Considered national treasures in their homeland of Turkey for their beauty and sweetness, the Turkish Angora is an affectionate breed that loves to be involved in everything you do. While a white coat and blue eyes are the norm, this breed is available in a variety of colors and patterns. This highly intelligent breed has a sense of humor and they aren’t above playing tricks on their families. Find out more about this breed and if the Turkish Angora is right for you and your family.
Playful
Medium-sized cat weighing 5-10 pounds. Males are typically larger than females and may be heavier. In kittens, there is generally no distinction between size until they mature into adolescence.
There have been Turkish Angoras known to live into their early 20’s. Life expectancy is dependent upon health, diet, living indoors or outdoors and genetics.
The most common Turkish Angora comes in white, however, all traditional colors are accepted and equally as beautiful.
The most common Turkish Angora comes in white, however, all traditional colors are accepted and equally as beautiful.

Persian, 
British Shorthair
Beautiful and elegant, the Turkish Angora can surprise the unsuspecting with their athleticism and intelligence. The outgoing Angora will greet visitors at the door and entertain guests. They are extremely agile and can be found in unexpected high places, like the top of the door. These outgoing affectionate cats are interested in everything you do and want to help. They are extremely clever and can open cabinets, doors and are known to get into things.
This is a sociable breed, best suited in a home that will have another cat or dog to keep them company if someone is not home all day. They are known to follow commands, stay by their owner’s side and sleep snuggled in bed. They get along with others including pets and are comfortable with older kids.
The ideal Turkish Angora is a perfectly balanced, graceful creature with a fine, silky coat. When you handle it, you are struck by the contrast between the soft flowing coat and the surprisingly firm, long muscular body beneath it. The Angora is a very intelligent, active and inquisitive breed that responds best to firm, but gentle handling. In judging the Turkish Angora, refinement is more important than size. This should especially be taken into consideration when comparing males to females.
The Turkish Angora is considered the race-car of the cat world, always on the go and willing to play. Don’t let their beauty and sophisticated look fool you, underneath that elegant exterior is a spirited cat with a great sense of humor. They may look slender and delicate but this active, athletic breed has a body of solid muscle under its silky coat.
They keep their kitten-like playfulness well into adulthood and stay fit by romping through the house in pursuit of toys. They are rarely bored as they will always find something to do, whether it’s daydreaming out a window playing hide-and-go-seek with you. They excel in the feline sport of agility due to their incredible intelligence and athleticism and they love to play fetch and learn new tricks.
Want to connect with fellow cat lovers and those who love the same breed as you?TICA is a large resource made up of smaller regions and clubs around the world.Click here to find a club near you and contact information for your regional director and website.
Wherever you are, you’re in TICA’s world!®
The TICA website is the only place where you can find TICA member breeders who have signed the TICA Code of Ethics.
Beloved by the Prophet Mohammad. Legend has it that a Turkish Angora named Muezza was so beloved by the Prophet Mohammad that when the call to prayer was announced, he noticed she was sleeping on the sleeve of his robe and cut off his sleeve so as not to disturb his beloved cat.
Original Longhaired Cat. It is believed that longhaired cats originated with the Turkish Angora and that the gene for long hair in cats may be a gift from the Turkish Angora’s distant ancestors.
The Turkish Angora is considered a National Treasure in Turkey and they live the Ankara Zoo. Turkish Angora cats are considered a national treasure in their homeland of Turkey where the Ankara Zoo established a breeding program to ensure the preservation of the breed. They concentrated on whites with blue eyes, gold eyes and odd eyes. They kept exact records of the genetically sound breeding program but were reluctant to let their cats go anywhere else.
They are Excellent Swimmers. Turkish Angoras enjoy playing in the water and are considered to be excellent swimmers. Some will even plunge into the bathtub, shower or swimming pool with their families.
The ideal Turkish Angora is a perfectly balanced, graceful creature with a fine, silky coat. When you handle it, you are struck by the contrast between the soft flowing coat and the surprisingly firm, long muscular body beneath it. The Turkish Angora is a very intelligent, active and inquisitive breed that responds best to firm, but gentle handling. In judging the Turkish Angora, refinement is more important than size. This should especially be taken into consideration when comparing males to females.
The Turkish Angora comes from Ankara (formerly Angora) where several other animals with delicate silky long coats originate. The earliest written reference occurs in 16th century France and they were well represented in the late 1800s and early 1900s at the dawn of the cat fancy in Europe. The Turkish Angora was used in Persian breeding programs in the early 1900s and disappeared as a separate breed. However, Turkey considered the cats a national treasure and established a breeding program at the Ankara Zoo to ensure the preservation of the breed. They concentrated on whites with blue eyes, gold eyes and odd eyes. They kept exact records of the genetically sound breeding program but were reluctant to let their cats go anywhere else. In the 1950’s, American servicemen found the exquisite cats in the Ankara Zoo and carried news of them home. Eventually, in 1962, the Ankara Zoo allowed Colonel and Mrs. Walter Grant to have an odd-eyed white male named Yildiz and an amber-eyed white female named Yildizcek. These cats became the foundation of a new breeding program in the USA. 1964 saw Sergeant and Mrs. Ivan Leinbach bring a pair to Arizona: Sam Olgum and Aliya’s Snowball. Mrs. Ray Porter brought a pregnant odd-eyed white female, Belkzar, home with her. The sire of the kittens was one of the Ankara Zoo males named Sam of Mountain Home. In 1966, the Grants were able to import another pair: an odd-eyed white male named Mav and an amber-eyed white female named Yaman. Other cats followed in the 1970s and the Turkish Angora became an established breed in North America.
The Turkish Angora may look slender and delicate but this active, athletic breed has a body of solid muscle under its silky coat. Turkish Angoras stay fit by exercising its hunting instinct romping through the house in pursuit of its toys. They are extremely agile, like the ballerinas they resemble. Turkish Angoras can be found in unexpected high places, like the top of the door. These outgoing affectionate cats are interested in everything you do and want to help. They are extremely clever and can open cabinets, doors and are known to get into things. Ignore an intelligent Turkish Angora and you can expect it to engage in activities designed to make you pay attention. Turkish Angoras excel in the sport of agility due to their incredible intelligence and athleticism. Turkish Angoras are happy to have other pets around as long as they recognize the Turkish Angora as the boss.
The Turkish Angora has a semi-longhair, soft, silky coat that rarely mats. A comb through the coat once a week will remove any loose hair and keep the shining coat in peak condition. While white is the traditional color associated with the Turkish Angora, they come in a plethora of amazing colors. In the summer, the coat is shorter with britches and a fluffy tail. An adult Turkish Angora in full winter coat has medium length, fine, silky hair with a gorgeous mane, britches and a fully plumed tail.
They have a delicate appearance with their elegant modified wedge head shape, long fine-boned legs, and an elongated medium-sized body. Don’t be mislead by their elegant appearance, Turkish Angoras are powerfully muscled cats, shrouded with a gossamer coat. They have walnut-shaped eyes set into the wedge and the head is crowned with large erect tufted ears. The tail streams out behind them in a long plume as they energetically bound through the house with fluid grace.
Turkish Angoras are healthy cats. Some white cats may have full or partial deafness that a BAER test determines. HCM is also a test all breeders should screen for in order to ensure they are breeding the healthiest cats possible.
The Turkish Angora is a semi-longhaired cat with a silky texture that doesn’t matte easily. They are known to have either a thin undercoat or no undercoat at all, which makes grooming easier. Daily upkeep grooming is recommended but not required.
Many Turkish Angoras have an affinity to water which makes bathing either very easy or very entertaining. Due to its hassle-free coat, there is no need to invest time and money in professional groomers. Most breeders train their kittens to accept regular cleaning, so professional grooming is not necessary.
Like any cat, the Turkish Angora needs weekly nail trimming, eye cleaning, and dental care with a vet-approved pet toothpaste for good overall health.
The Turkish Angora is a very active breed that requires high-quality calories to maintain their energy levels and overall health. Premium foods where the main ingredients are real meats without fillers are recommended. As a result, many breeders feed a raw diet that mimics a cat’s ancestral diet.
As with all cats, it is important to give your cat fresh, clean water daily so they don’t hesitate to drink. The water bowl should be placed at least three feet away from any food. Cats’ noses are sensitive and an overwhelming smell of food may cause them to drink less.
Join the Cat Care Community!
Sign up now for exclusive monthly cat care tips delivered straight to your inbox. Enter your name and email below to stay updated with the best advice for your kitty companions!
"*" indicates required fields
--------------------------------------------------
