Image Credit: Chiemsee2016, Pixabay
Last Updated on March 10, 2025 by Dogster Team
Although dogs and cats are traditionally considered enemies, many members of the two species co-exist happily. Not all dog breeds are feline-friendly, though, especially those bred for hunting. However, despite their hunting heritage, Vizslas can be good with cats—with the proper socialization. Keep reading for tips on how to help a cat and Vizsla live together in harmony. You’ll also learn which pets you should avoid pairing with this breed.

The Vizsla is a high-energy, sleek red dog that originates from the country of Hungary. The ancestors of this breed date back to the Dark Ages. They were bred to serve as bird hunters and affectionate companions, but the Vizsla is growing in popularity as a family pet.
As hunters, Vizslas helped sniff out, point, and retrieve game (mostly birds) for their human companions. While this job requires them to have a reliable prey drive, it’s not as strong as that of other breeds, such as Terriers, that were bred to kill what they caught. With socialization, Vizslas and cats can live together safely.
However, individual dogs can vary in how they react to felines. If your adult Vizsla shows a tendency to chase and harass neighborhood cats, it may not be the best idea to add a kitty to the house. Similarly, if your cat is shy and runs away from any dog they encounter, your Vizsla may be more likely to view them as prey.
While Vizslas can learn to get along with cats, you should keep them away from other small pets like birds and rodents. These prey animals are likelier to trigger the dog’s hunting instincts. In addition, just being around a predator-type animal can cause dangerous stress for pets like rabbits.

Introducing a cat and a Vizsla may be easier if you pair a young dog with an adult cat. Adult animals may accept young ones more easily. In addition, puppies are easiest to socialize with other pets and people when they’re still learning and growing.
Adult Vizslas may view tiny kittens as prey even if they don’t mind adult cats, so be especially cautious if you’re adopting a young feline. If you’re adopting an adult cat, try to choose one that’s already lived with dogs if you have the option.
When you bring a new cat or dog into the household, it’s essential to keep them separate at first. Set up a safe room for the cat to use while they get used to their new home. Allow the dog and cat to sniff each other under the door and get used to hearing and smelling the new arrival.
You can also let the cat out to explore the house briefly while the dog is outside or on a walk. The two should be used to each other’s scent before they meet.
When it’s time to meet face to face, ensure everyone’s safety by keeping the Vizsla on a leash until you see how the dog and cat react to each other. Make sure the kitty has the option to escape if they feel uncomfortable.
Watch your Vizsla for signs of aggression or too much interest in the cat, such as stiff body language, barking, growling, or lunging at the kitty. Monitor the cat for signs of anxiety too, such as flattened ears, hissing, growling, and crouched body language.
If you notice that the two animals aren’t getting along, it is okay to take a break and go back to letting them get used to each other’s scent. There’s no set timeline for how long this should take.
Help the cat and Vizsla form good feelings about each other by rewarding them when they interact calmly. Feed the two animals on either side of a door or baby gate to help build a positive association as they get to know each other. Offer both pets treats when they start interacting face-to-face.
Keep your attitude calm and positive during the introduction process. Animals are good at picking up on their owner’s moods and responding to changes in their behavior. Vizslas are especially sensitive and attached to their owners, so they’re likely to take their cues from you.
If you need guidance on training your dog, we suggest you speak to a professional trainer or a vet.
💛 🐶 Speak To a Vet Online From the Comfort of Your Couch!
If you need to speak with a vet but can’t get to one, head over to PangoVet. It’s an online service where you can talk to a vet online and get the personalized advice you need for your pet — all at an affordable price!
Click to Speak With a Vet

With patience and supervision, Vizslas can be good with cats, depending on the personalities of the individual animals. If you’re considering adding this breed to your animal family, carefully research them. They need a lot of exercise and don’t like being left alone often. Vizslas aren’t the best fit for every owner, but for active owners with time to train, they are the ideal companions.
Featured Image Credit: Chiemsee2016, Pixabay
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Elizabeth Gray is a lifelong lover of all animals great and small. She got her first cat at 5 years old and at 14, she started working for her local veterinarian. Elizabeth spent more than 20 years working as a veterinary nurse before stepping away to become a stay-at-home parent to her daughter. Now, she is excited to share her hard-earned knowledge (literally--she has scars) with the readers. Elizabeth lives in Iowa  with her family, including her two furry kids, Linnard, a husky mix and Algernon, the worldʻs most patient cat. When not writing, she enjoys reading, watching all sports but especially soccer, and spending time  outdoors  with her family.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
By: 			Author The Puppy Mag
Posted on Last updated: May 18, 2023
Categories Vizsla
Do vizslas and cats mix? Vizslas have a strange relationship with cats, and the answer isn’t so obvious. Fortunately, this article explains everything you need to know about these two unlikely companions.
Before I start, I want to say that it is possible for a vizsla and a cat to get along. But let me first explain why the odds are not favorable…
Vizslas have a strong prey drive in them from their gundog past working to hunt, point, and retrieve wild game, it’s literally in their DNA to lose their mind when they see a small animal like a rabbit, squirrel, hedgehog, or yes, a cat.
Even some toy breeds of dog that are incredibly small, trigger the same response to “chase and capture”.
These instincts are so deeply ingrained into the breed, that they will always be there… Even if your vizsla is not from a direct working lineage, he or she will still have that prey drive, just waiting to trigger.
And of course, cats are different animals, small in size, fast, and love to make sudden movements… The perfect storm for any vizsla.
Fortunately, despite the difficulty, it is still possible for a vizsla to get on well with a cat.
With the right training, time, caution, and planning, you can have a vizsla and cat living harmoniously under the same roof.
It may not be a simple or easy journey, and you will certainly need to be there to oversee all interactions that happen, but it can work.
Admittedly, this relationship will work much better if you already have a cat first and then get a puppy vizsla after. This way the vizsla will grow up with the cat having already established their place in the family. I can appreciate however, not everyone will be doing it in this order.
The most important thing to understand is the pack mentality and hierarchy. Your vizsla must view your cat as a higher-ranking member of the pack in order to respect her. The “pack” being your family.
If your vizsla considers your cat to be lower in status, there will always be the danger of him tormenting, chasing, and seriously injuring your cat.
In the beginning stages, it’s important to keep your vizsla and cat separated. Their smells will be strong enough for both of them to know they are present.
This is the best and safest step to start with. Your vizsla and cat should remain separated for a couple of days.
This allows them both time to get accustomed to each other’s smells before actually seeing each other.
The first time you introduce them in the same room, your vizsla should be on the leash. And you must instantly demonstrate to your vizsla that the cat is a valued part of the family.
Pick up your cat, hold her, stroke her, and interact with her in front of your vizsla. Your cat will probably want to gain height, and that’s fine. Your vizsla needs to remain on the leash across the room.
Keep breaking his focus on your cat with treats and toys. The same goes for your cat. This stage should be repeated on a daily basis until your vizsla is unphased by your cat’s presence in the room.
The next stage is to give your vizsla some slack with the leash allowing him to get a little closer. When both enter the room, have your cat’s favorite ball of yarn, and your vizsla’s favorite chew toy.
Try and encourage your vizsla and cat to play while they are in the same room (but not with each other).
Offer both your vizsla and cat some treats as this helps to create positive associations in the presence of each other.
This should last another few days.
After 2-3 weeks of practicing the above, it’s time to ditch the leash.
But before you do, analyze your vizsla in the presence of your cat. By now, he shouldn’t be bothered by her, and you must be confident that they have established some level of rapport.
The first time you bring them together without the leash, be ready with treats and toys, and ALWAYS break their attention from each other before it gets too intense. And it will.
Breaking their focus upon each other is the key to diffusing situations before they escalate. All your hard work could be undone if your cat gets spooked and makes a run for it. All it takes is one sudden movement.
The next stage is to monitor and maintain a safe relationship between both your cat and vizsla.
Please remember, however, you cannot trust the relationship yet. You will always need to be there to supervise interactions. Perhaps even for the first year.
It’s hard for me to give you a specific time frame until when you can feel confident that both can be left alone together. For me personally, it would take years. But it all depends on your situation and how well your cat and vizsla have bonded.
⭐ Two extra tips along the way:
● Feed your cat before your vizsla. By eating first, your vizsla will consider your cat to be higher in social rank and will better establish your cat’s place in the family.
● Allow your cat to be physically higher than your vizsla. Allow your cat to eat higher and perch on the window ledge. Being physically higher is another form of superiority.
There’s one simple and primal reason why your cat’s “rank” must be higher than your vizslas… this is because your vizsla can kill your cat, but your cat can’t kill your vizsla. And they both know it!
What’s stopping that from actually happening is the fact that your vizsla views the cat as higher in the pack ranking than they are.
Popular Vizsla Articles on The Puppy Mag
As I previously mentioned, if you already have a cat, and are considering getting a vizsla puppy, the relationship will be easier to make work from the beginning.
Puppies will have enough time to bond with the cat before they outgrow them and become an obvious physical threat. This bonding period is crucial.
Encourage your cat and puppy to play with each other, give them treats around one another, and show both of them that they are valued members of the pack.
If anything, you’ll need to be more cautious with your cat during these early stages.
Remember to defuse any escalating situations quickly with distractions, toys, treats and cooling off periods.
Focus on building positive associations when they are around each other, and they will have a solid foundation that will continue developing in the future.
So can vizslas get on with cats? The simple answer is yes. It is possible with time, training, and a lot of caution.
The key to making this work is to establish your cat’s social ranking of the pack to be higher than your vizsla. (the pack being your family). This is because your vizsla is strong enough and big enough to kill your cat, but not the other way around.
If you are trying this right now, please take all the precautions you can to avoid serious accidents.
Additional Info:https://resources.bestfriends.org/article/how-introduce-dog-cathttps://www.cesarsway.com/prey-drive-problem/
--------------------------------------------------
Pet blog
Shop
Cats
Cat Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful cat breeds and mixes
Cat Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your furry friend is a crucial decision
Cat Gear
We love our cats, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Cat Behavior
Understanding cat behavior can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Dogs
Dog Breeds
Complete index of all the wonderful dog breeds and mixes
Dog Nutrition
Deciding what you can and cannot feed your four legged friend is a crucial decision
Dog Gear
We love our dogs, and therefore we want to get them the best gear
Dog Training
Training your dog can set you both up for a happy, productive relationship
Hepper is reader-supported. When you buy via links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission at no cost to you. Learn more.
Share
Height:
21-23 inches
Weight:
45-55 pounds
Lifespan:
12-14 years
Colors:
Red, fawn
Suitable for:
Hunting, families with older kids, active families or singles
Temperament:
Energetic, docile, affectionate
The Vizsla is a versatile pup that initially comes from Hungary. They were bred as pointing and trailing dogs and were first used in falconry. These dogs hunted with the trained falcons to capture small mammals on the hunt. They can also be called the Hungarian Vizsla, Hungarian Pointer, or the Drotszoru Magyar Vizsla.
The Vizsla is a muscular dog, meant for many years to be an agile and hardworking breed. They strike an elegant and rather stunning appearance with their rust-colored coat. Their coat only forms a single layer and has a slicked-back appearance. Vizslas are high-energy dogs that need plenty of attention and exercise.
Vizsla puppies have never fallen out of fashion and are still well-loved. Even though they might not be the most common dog breed, they are still easy to find. However, you should be prepared for a rather expensive puppy, even without a good pedigree. Just like with any dog, you should always try to check out your local shelter before you go to a breeder.
If you decide to go with a breeder, ensure that they are using best practices when they breed and care for all of their dogs. One of the best ways to do this is to ask for a tour around their breeding facility. Any breeder should be happy to do so since they should take pride in how they treat their animals. They should be willing to show you through any part of the facility they allow their dogs. While moving through the tour, keep an eye out for the healthy nature of their adult dogs and puppies. Check for the safety precautions they have for their dogs and the people who live and work in the facility.
Before finalizing the adoption of your new puppy, ask to see the parent’s certification and registration papers if they are claiming they have them. These can help you affirm your dog’s heritage and get a better idea about their history. Finally, once you have picked out your puppy and are moving forward with the adoption, ask for a copy of the parents’ veterinary records. This can alert you about any potential illness or disease that could be heritable. You can inform your vet about this early on so that they can keep a close eye on any specific signs of illness as your puppy gets older.
The Magyar tribes of Hungary were the originally political and cultural units for Hungarians. They came from the Ural region within what we now think of to be central Russia. These tribes continued to migrate over the Eastern European steppe, or so our historical texts and tracking point to today.
These Hungarian tribes conquered the Carpathian Basin’s indigenous communities at the beginning of 900 AD and mixed with them, forming the Magyar as history knows them today.
With these, the conquering of the Carpathian Basin, the principality of Hungary was subsequently formed. They were a grand and well-organized people, so it should come as no surprise that the Vizsla originates from dogs they crossed and specifically bred.
The Vizslas were meant to be a working dog, helping alongside many men to further each of the Hungarian tribes’ community. Their elegance, muscular stature, and intelligence all speak to this breeding.
Today, historians believe that the stunning Vizsla’s ancestors include the Weimaraner’s ancestor, a dog breed we still have today. The Turkish Yellow Dog and the Transylvanian Hound were also believed to have been involved, although they are currently extinct breeds.
The Hungarian society progressed and built upon itself, growing both in size and complexity after establishing the principality. The Vizslas grew with them and became the dog of the noblemen and aristocratic society of Hungary. They were used as hunting dog and a companion.
During this time, the Vizsla was at the height of their local popularity. They were not available to “common” people, but anyone who meant anything in aristocratic society had to own one of these dogs.
Because of this specific association to the elite of Hungary, the breed was almost completely wiped out. During World War II, the Soviet Army invaded Hungary and purposed to slaughter all Hungary nobility. They killed everything within their households, including the dog that represented these elite classes.
As Hungarians began to flee the country, they smuggled some of these dogs out with them. This bravery helped to save the breed since they had not spread further outside of Hungary previous to this point in history.
After the war, dogs began to spread and become more popular in European countries. They were first imported into America in 1950. The dogs were recognized as a long-standing dog breed by the AKC in 1960.
One of the most famous of all of the Vizslas is Pete. Pete was a dog that excelled as part of the search-and-rescue team in the terrorist attacks in New York in 2001.
Most hunting dogs are known for their affectionate natures. They need plenty of training to work well with their hunter counterpart and quickly form bonds throughout this time.
The Hungarian Vizsla stands apart even in this since they are known for bonding extremely fast. This characteristic has given rise to the nickname “Velcro Vizsla” since they continually want to be around their owners. They are seemingly attached to them and will follow them everywhere.
Vizslas can bond well with their whole family but will typically pick one person, in particular, to bond closest.
We already know about the tendency of the Vizsla to be a “Velcro” dog, but what else can you expect if you adopt one of these unique dogs?
Vizslas are very athletic and are quite active. They seem to know how to differentiate between play and exercise and times to remain calm, such as when they are in home. If they do not get enough mental and physical stimulation, behavior issues can manifest. They may start to bite and scratch furniture, doors or bark excessively.
These dogs are a bit of a puzzle. They are very affectionate and intelligent, but around strangers, they can be quite shy. They might also be very stubborn with someone that they have not yet gotten to know well.
Socialization is essential with these dogs since they will be much less shy and unruly around strangers if they get accustomed to meeting new people when they are young. They learn quickly and can adapt especially fast as a younger dog.
Vizslas can be excellent dogs for families, especially since they are so affectionate. Because of their high amounts of somewhat unruly energy, they are best to be homed with older children. Although they would never mean cause harm, the medium and muscular build of a Vizsla can knock kids over like a feather.
Vizslas are not typically aggressive dogs when it comes to other dog breeds. Since they are hunting dogs, they should be very carefully monitored around smaller animals like cats or rabbits.
Early socialization is one of the most critical factors for these dogs. If they are not socialized early on, their behavior will be less manageable when they meet new humans and animals.

Keeping up the muscular stature of the Vizsla and feeding them enough for their work and activity requires quite a large amount of food. They are not considered a large-breed dog, but some would say that they can eat like one.
Vizslas should receive between 3 and 4 cups of food each day. It is best to divide this into two meals to support their digestive system better. Give them half of their daily allotment in the morning and the other half in the evening.
When selecting dog food for your Vizsla, it is best to find some formulated for a highly active dog. They need more protein than other dog breeds might. Vizslas can tend to overeat if given the opportunity. When taking them in for their veterinary appointment, check with your vet to ensure that they are not over or underweight.
Vizslas need plenty of activity each day. They are considered a highly energetic dog. As mentioned previously, if they do not get the exercise they need, they can become extraordinarily vocal or destructive.
If you live in a rural area, it is easier to get your Vizsla exercise since they can run around your property. Vizslas do not tend to run very far from where their favorite humans will be since they would not want to get lost away from them.
In urban areas, take your dog for walks or runs every day. You can also take them to the dog park to socialize them with other animals. They should get about 90 minutes of activity each day, so be prepared for a lot of movement.
If you prefer hiking, running, or walking with your dog, aim for 14 miles each week to ensure that they receive the exercise they need.
Training a Vizsla does not tend to be very difficult once you have managed to bond with them. These dogs are eager to please their favorite people and love to do things that get them up and out of the house. They need plenty of mental stimulation as well.
Break up training into several sessions that are about 10 minutes each day if possible. It is best to exclusively use positive reinforcement during the training since they are sensitive to their owner’s emotions. Harsh words will cause them to shut down quickly and bring out their stubborn traits.
Vizslas are people-oriented and will happily hang on your every word. If they do something wrong, do not reprimand them. Instead, continuously reward everything they do correctly, and you will find success much faster.
Grooming your Vizsla is one of the most manageable parts of owning these dogs. They are incredibly low-maintenance since they do not have an undercoat and therefore shed minimally. They only need to get brushed once a week to spread out the oils from their skin and maintain a healthy coat.
Since Vizslas have such a thin coat, if you live in a cold area, be prepared to fit them with a doggy jacket or sweater.
Beyond caring for their coat, check and gently clean their ears weekly. Brush their teeth at least once a week but preferably more often. Their nails should get clipped about once a month, although, with enough exercise on hard surfaces, they may wear down naturally.
Vizslas are an old breed that tends to be robust and healthy. There are certain conditions that they are more prone to than some others. Keep a watch out for these and check for them specifically on the veterinary records of their parents.
Minor Conditions

 Epilepsy
 Lymphosarcoma
 Progressive Retinal Atrophy (PRA)
 Tricuspid valve dysplasia

Serious Conditions

 Hip dysplasia
 Hypothyroidism
 Allergies



Male vs. Female
There are no significant differences in the characters of males and females in this breed. Males might be a couple of inches taller and up to 15 pounds heavier than females, but the size difference is not very noticeable.


Conclusion
Vizslas are strong-willed, highly loyal, and very affectionate dogs. Although they might be expensive to adopt, they are worth it for anyone looking for a hard-working and dedicated companion.
See Also:

12 Incredible Vizsla Facts (Breed Explained)
How Much Do Vizslas Bark? Facts & FAQ


Featured Image Credit: Shakarrigrafie, Shutterstock
ContentsVizsla Puppies3 Little-Known Facts About the Vizsla1. Vizslas were initially the hunting dog associated with the 10th-century Magyar tribe.2. Vizslas later became an elitist’s dog and were practically made extinct because of it.3. Hungarian Vizslas are often nicknamed “Velcro Vizsla.”Temperament & Intelligence of the Vizsla 🧠Are These Dogs Good for Families? 🏡Does This Breed Get Along with Other Pets? 🐶 😽Things to Know When Owning a Vizsla:Food & Diet Requirements 🦴Exercise 🐕Training 🦮Grooming ✂️Health and Conditions ❤️Male vs. FemaleConclusion           How useful was this post?               Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)                                 Submit Rating                  Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!       Your feedback really matters.          What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?            Submit Feedback

There are no significant differences in the characters of males and females in this breed. Males might be a couple of inches taller and up to 15 pounds heavier than females, but the size difference is not very noticeable.

Vizslas are strong-willed, highly loyal, and very affectionate dogs. Although they might be expensive to adopt, they are worth it for anyone looking for a hard-working and dedicated companion.
See Also:
Featured Image Credit: Shakarrigrafie, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Hepper for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Trending Posts
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
Can Cats Eat Kale? Vet-Reviewed Nutrition Facts & FAQ
4 Homemade Grain-Free Cat Treat Recipes (Vet Approved)
Related articles
Further Reading
Can Cats Eat Garlic? Vet-Reviewed Facts & Safety Tips
Are Maine Coon Cats Hypoallergenic? Vet-Approved Allergy Facts & Prevention Tips
18 Cats That Don’t Shed (Non-Shedding Breeds): Info, Pictures & FAQ
Vet articles
Latest Vet Answers
The latest veterinarians' answers to questions from our database
Tumors & Cancer in Hamsters: Signs, Causes & Treatment (Vet Answer)
Why Does My Puppy Have Bald Spots? Our Vet Explains Causes & Treatment
Why Is My Cockatiel Losing Feathers? Our Vet Explains 10 Likely Reasons
PangoVet: Our New Telehealth Service Is Just a Click Away
Dizzy Dog Syndrome: Our Vet Explains Idiopathic Vestibular Disease
Rosemary for Dogs: Our Vet Explains The Safety, Potential Uses & Efficacy
Cat food recalls
Have a cat? Stay on top of cat food recalls here >
Dog food recalls
Have a dog? Stay on top of dog food recalls here >
Ask a vet
Have a question? talk to a 
vet online for advice >
Hepper.com does not intend to provide veterinary advice. While we provide information resources and canine education, the content here is not a substitute for veterinary guidance.
Cats
Cats
Info
© All Rights Reserved Hepper 2025
Talk With A Vet Online
Need expert advice for your pet? PangoVet connects you with experienced veterinarians who truly care.
We apologize for the inconvenience of this extra signup step. However, bots were subscribing to our list in huge numbers, so we had to add this extra step.
--------------------------------------------------
It looks like something is wrong. Please try again or come back a little later.
Join Growing Pup for help from our Purina experts on how to find the right puppy & prepare for your new arrival. And when you find your new pup, tell us a bit more about them to get a discount off one of our puppy ranges and regular personalised puppy advice.
Thanks for joining Growing Pup. You'll receive your first expert tips on getting a puppy within the next day, so keep a look out in your inbox!
By registering you consent for Nestlé Purina Petcare UK&I and its Affiliates to process your personal data. You will receive communications from Purina® UK&I and can update your communication preferences or unsubscribe at any time. View our Privacy Policy.
A robust, noble-looking, medium-sized dog. Known for their affectionate natures and high energy levels, Hungarian Vizslas make perfect dogs for active families.
A larger-than-life character, the Hungarian Vizsla makes a fun, lively, loving companion for those who can give him the time and attention he needs. A sensitive dog, they enjoy being active and learning new things and revel in training, provided it is fun and rewarding. They can be naturally protective of their family and as they bond so closely to their beloved owner, they hate to be left alone.
Country of Origin: Hungary
There is no doubt this is an old breed - but just how old has been the subject of many arguments. They are in size and shape very similar to the Weimaraner but with different colouring - and some say that the Vizsla was a cross between the Weimaraner and various pointers as recently as the 20th century. Hungarian breeders however maintain that it is the other way round and that there are records of Vizslas dating from the 11th and 12th century when they would hunt with Magyars and their falcons. In all likelihood this is the correct version of events and the Vizsla has been helping Hungarian hunters for hundreds of years - although when the breed struggled to survive in the early part of the 20th century, pointers were introduced to strengthen the stock and ensure their survival.
The Hungarian Vizsla is generally a healthy breed. The most common breed specific problems are a swallowing disorder and epilepsy.
The Hungarian Vizsla needs at least two hours of active daily exercise a day. As you'd expect, given their hunt, point and retrieve background, retrieve games (on land and in water) are popular with them, and they do need plenty of off-lead free running and exploring.
Like most gundogs, Hungarian Vizslas do not do well in urban environments. They are large, active, country dogs that need space both inside and out.
Your dog's diet needs to have the right balance of all the main nutrient groups including a constant supply of fresh water. It's also important to conduct regular body condition scores to ensure you keep your dog in ideal shape and remember to feed them at least twice daily and in accordance with the feeding guidelines of their particular food.
The short, smooth coat is dense and quite greasy, and needs very little maintenance – just a weekly brush.
Hungarian Vizlas enjoy working with their owners and will enjoy training as long as it is fun and rewarding. They can reach a high standard of obedience and can happily compete in dog sports such as agility - but will sometimes have unexpected moments of apparent deafness when something exciting like a squirrel catches their eye! As such, training a good recall is important.
Hungarian Vizslas can make great dogs for active families with older children who love the great outdoors and plenty of walking.
While many dogs are traditionally thought of as being good with children, all dogs and children need to be taught to get on with and respect each other, and be safe together. Even so, dogs and young children should never be left alone together and adults should supervise all interactions between them.
Get weekly, pawsonalised puppy advice delivered straight to your inbox. Receive unrivalled access to our expert team of in-house vets, behaviourists, and advisors who are here to help - just call, email or chat with us online.
--------------------------------------------------
This Dog Breed Corner heralds the redhead of the canine world: the Vizsla! Learn all about the Vizsla’s proud history, their training needs, and whether they’re the right dog for you. Do you Own a Vizsla that needs some extra care? Mad Paws have Dog Sitters in Adelaide, Alice Springs, and all across the land!

Height – 53 – 64cm
Weight – 18 – 29kg
Lifespan – 12 – 15 years
Country of origin – Hungary
Breed type – Sporting group, Hunt-Point-Retrieve (HPR)
Other names – Hungarian Pointer, Hungarian Vizsla, Magyar Vizsla

With just one look at the Vizsla, you probably wouldn’t be surprised that this is a talented hunting dog. Those intelligent eyes and alert stance highlight that this is a dog ready to jump into action at any moment. So where did this handsome pup get these incredible instincts?
Records are shaky, but we do know that Vizslas came from Hungary. That said, it’s possible that the breed goes all the way back to the 10th century. Some believe this breed is old enough to have inspired breeders to create similar hunting breeds like the Weimaraner.
And the visionary humans who created the breed? That would be the Magyar tribe, who settled modern-day Hungary a few thousand years ago. These early Hungarians were skilled hunters, using both Vizsla-like dogs and falcons to feed their nomadic communities. While they didn’t keep records of the Vizsla’s forebears, we can see these hunting dogs depicted in early Magyar art.
It’s believed that the word “Vizsla” comes from the earliest version of modern-day Hungarian, and means “to search.” Indeed, this dog was a prized hunting companion because of their ability to seek out, trap, and retrieve nearly any prey animal.
Over time, the Vizsla became a dog of nobility, owned by the wealthiest landowners and powerful families in Hungary. They were sometimes called the “Gift of Kings,” with strict breeding restrictions. On very special occasions, Hungarians gifted Vizslas as an act of high respect for royals in neighbouring kingdoms. Their Owners so treasured them that, unlike other dogs, these royal pups would never sleep outside. It may be for this reason that the Vizsla is such a wonderful family pet, with indoor manners as entrenched as their hunting skills.
By the 1800’s, Hungary was starting to breed Weimaraners and English Pointers, although the Vizsla would continue to be a dog of prestige. Skip ahead to World War I and you could find these brave doggos transporting messages along the Eastern Front.
This and the next world war would throw the Vizsla into near extinction. Fortunately, Vizsla fanciers and dog-Owning Hungarians fleeing Soviet occupation after WWII would keep this breed alive. Today, experts view the Vizsla as one of the best hunting dogs and one of the most adaptable family dogs. On their part, they seem to be happy in any of their many modern-day roles, from search and rescue canines, to bird-hunting dogs, to snuggly family pets.

The Vizsla is a dog of balance. They are as energetic as they are gentle and affectionate. As intelligent as they are puppy-like. And while they can look regal and stoic in one moment, you’ll be laughing at their goofy antics in the next.
Overall, this is a dog that loves their humans, and they’ll do anything to be in their Owner’s good graces. If you’re looking for a dog to entertain themselves in the backyard or give you some space at the end of a long day, the Vizsla is not your dog. Some Owners have even taken to calling the Vizsla the “velcro dog” because of their habit of sticking to you wherever you go. There’s simply no personal space during your life with a Vizsla.
What that means is that this is a dog who excels at snuggling. If you’re looking for a pupper to share an afternoon nap with, a Vizsla will be just the furry space heater you’ve been looking for. After all, they’ve got thousands of years of experience sharing the bed.
When it comes to other animals and younger family members, Vizslas are polite and gentle, as long as they’ve been properly socialised. In general, this isn’t the dog at the dog park picking fights with other pups. Instead, this is the pooch with lots of friends. It’s also the one that will get a lot of compliments from other Dog Owners.
With all the wonderful traits of the Vizsla, it might not surprise you that this doggo has something of a sensitive streak. They don’t like to be reprimanded harshly, and they get pretty down when left alone for too long.
Separation anxiety, as well as some destructiveness and howling, is common with Vizslas that aren’t getting enough exercise or attention. Vizsla Owners often rely on the help of a trusted Dog Walker even if they’re fairly active themselves. The extra attention is great for maintaining this pup’s morale.

Training is a wonderful way to bond with a Vizsla and keep this high energy pup engaged and happy. They absolutely love the opportunity to show their Owners what they’re capable of, and you’ll be amazed at how many new commands they can learn. Plus, they’ve got an array of intuitive skills that you’ll want to explore in your training sessions.
But first, start with the basics. Make sure these doggos get the chance to socialise safely and positively with other pups and humans early as there is a risk of them becoming shy and timid. And, of course, work on their basic commands.
One thing to keep in mind is that Vizslas are difficult to reign in once they’ve become distracted. Things like a stray bird, rustling in a bush, or interesting scent are bound to ring that inner hunt-point-retrieve bell of theirs. And because they’re fast and prone to fixation, it can be hard to reign them back in. It’s a good idea to train with a whistle so that you can be sure that they hear you no matter how exciting the distraction.
Don’t get the impression that a Vizsla is hard to train, though! Once you establish good rapport with this pooch, they’re quick learners. And if you can incorporate simulations in training sessions that hark back to their hunting days, they’ll be the ones trying to entice you to keep up with the training routine.
These doggos are perfect candidates for agility and obedience training, flyball, dock diving, frisbee competitions, and more.

​The Vizsla is a highly active dog who is happiest with a highly active family. As adults, they need up to 2 hours of exercise per day, but they’ll enjoy even more if you can spare the time.
And when we say exercise, we mean more than a leisurely walk around the block. These doggos are runners (they can reach speeds of up to 64km per hour!), and they’ll tire out only after being able to get that heartrate up. Whether it’s playing fetch, romping around at the dog park, or running alongside you on a long bike ride, these dogs can go the distance with energy leftover. And if you’re looking for the perfect jogging companion, take a look at our article on How To Turn Your Dog Into A Running Partner.
You certainly don’t want there to be too much energy leftover. When not properly exercised, Vizslas can resort to barking and howling, as well as chewing up anything in sight. In fact, even with the right amount of daily exercise, it’s probably a good idea to provide them with a few chew toys around the house. Retrieving dogs like the Vizsla are known to be mouthy.
At the same time, be mindful about whether your Vizsla is going overboard with the playtime. Like many other working dogs, they won’t tell you when they’ve reached their limit. You’ll want to be especially careful about overexercising them in hot weather.
When it comes to living arrangements, Vizslas are some of the most adaptable dogs out there. As long as they get enough daily exercise and human interaction, they’ll be just as content in an apartment as they would be in a large home. If you’re not home for much of the day, a dedicated Dog Walker can be a relief for your Vizsla.
Temperature control is another thing to consider when it comes to Vizsla living conditions. That Vizsla coat may be shiny and beautiful, but it’s not great at insulating this pup from the cold. Because of their temperature sensitivity, these dogs should never be considered outdoor pets. And, when the temperatures drop, many Vizsla Owners make sure to invest in some warm doggy clothes.

Not only is the Vizsla’s coat stunning and regal, it’s also very low-maintenance. The short fur and lack of undercoat means that this doggo does not trap odours or dirt like other pups. And, you’ll regularly see Vizslas cleaning themselves like a cat.
These dogs do shed, so you might want to keep a soft bristled brush on hand for a quick grooming session every now and again. Bathing shouldn’t take place more than once every few months, or after your Vizsla has rolled in something particularly smelly.
Beyond these simple grooming tasks, you’ll also want to brush their teeth regularly and trim their nails. For Vizslas who love the water, you’ll also want to keep their ears clean.

This is a generally healthy breed with just a few medical conditions to look out for. Like many dogs of the same size, hip dysplasia can be a concern. Vets will also monitor for Progressive Retinal Atrophy, Hypothyroidism, and Epilepsy. Vizslas may also be at higher risk than normal for Lymphosarcoma, one of the most common cancers found in dogs.
In general, Vizsla breeding programs are strict about screening for genetic issues common in the breed, which is an important step towards ensuring healthy pups. Proper nutrition and exercise are also crucial for healthy growth.
And, while it’s not exactly a health condition, there is one more thing to be on the lookout for. Because of the Vizsla’s short coat and tendency to dive head-first into any exciting adventure, these puppers tend to get scratches and scrapes quite often. You might keep a first aid kit on hand whenever your Vizsla is going to be running through bushes or wooded areas.

When talking about coat types in the Vizsla community, be careful not to make the common faux pas of mistaking a Vizsla and a Wire-haired Vizsla for the same breed. While very similar, the Wire-haired Vizsla is a separate breed recognised by the AKC. They may share a common history and that gorgeous red coat, but they are cousins with their own set of breed standards and personality traits.

Built to run and accustomed to cuddles, this dog is a wonderful family companion. They’re equal amounts affectionate and energetic, which can be overwhelming to new Dog Owners or someone looking for more of a standoffish pup. And they can be quite difficult to handle when not provided with enough attention or exercise.
We wouldn’t consider the Vizsla to be a low-maintenance dog in the least, but you will spend less time grooming them than you would with other puppers. However, you will need to provide them with some fun chew toys and other boredom busters if you want your house to be safe from destruction.
A Vizsla is the ideal dog for anyone looking for a working dog, a highly trainable dog, and a dog that will always find a way to snuggle under the blankets with their favourite humans. Gentle, engaged, and loyal, it’s easy to see why the Vizsla has been so coveted for thousands of years.

comments
--------------------------------------------------
