The Walker Hound is actually two different breeds today both descendant from the original Walker. They are the Running Walker Hound and the Treeing Walker Coonhound and mark their ancestors as the American Foxhound and the English Foxhound. The Treeing Walker is a breed developed in the United States when a “Tennessee Lead Dog” was crossed with a Walker Hound. The Running Walker is considered a Foxhound not a coonhound. They Running Walker does not have a treeing instinct and is not as common in hunting in the southern US as the Treeing Walker Coonhound.
In 1945 the United Kennel Club (UKC) recognized the Treeing Walker Coonhound and by the AKC (American Kennel Club) in 2012. They were developed to hunt and “tree” racoons – so the coonhound label. They also are capable of hunting bears, deer, bobcats and mountain lions. Their baying voice is distinctive that even at a great distance a hunter can recognize the voice of his dog.
Both types of Walkers are calm, gentle and friendly family dogs. The original Walker Hounds were bred in Kentucky by John Walker and George Maupin. The Walker Coonhound, Treeing was recognized as part of the English Coonhound breed by the UKC in 1905. In 1945, they were then recognized as their own breed by the UKC.
They have become the most popular hound competitor in coon hunt competitions. They are known for speed and an ability to catch more racoons in a shorter period of time than any other coonhound. They also tree squirrels, cougars. Opossums, roof rats and skunks.
This working dog is tall and lean with the males being somewhat larger than the females. They have broad skulls and hanging, long ears with a long muzzle. They have a soft expression in their dark eyes, straight legs and compact cat-like feet. The coat is smooth, glossy and fine. The traditional color is a tricolor or a bi-color in white with black and tan markings. The bicolors are white and tan or white and black. Their speed comes from the long , powerful and muscled legs and hindquarters along with the frame that is lean and streamlined.
2.Special talents   Walkers are capable of covering a lot of ground in a hurry. Speed and treeing instinct.
The Treeing Walker Coonhound is a fairly healthy breed needing to watch out for accidents on the hunting trail from shrubs, brush and tree limbs. They can become tick infested if you are not careful, especially in their long ears that flop on the side of their head. Clean their ears weekly and check them after every run in the woods.
They are also prone to hip dysplasia and eye issues. Hip dysplasia can cause lameness and/or arthritis. Before to keep the ear clear of debris and wax to avoid ear infections.
1Feeding the puppy – don’t overfeed. Feed quality medium size breed 3-4 small meals per day
2.Feeding the adult  – don’t overfeed. Feed quality medium size breed 1-2 small meals per day
running or hiking companion. long daily walks at a minimum. He loves to run and play with his family. Hunting and “coon trials” are his specialty and best ways to get exercise. He needs to run
--------------------------------------------------
Both Walker Hound and Coonhound are originated from United States. Both Walker Hound and Coonhound are of same height. Both Walker Hound and Coonhound are having almost same weight. Both Walker Hound and Coonhound has almost same life span. Both Walker Hound and Coonhound has same litter size. Both Walker Hound and Coonhound requires Low maintenance.
The Walker Hound is actually two different breeds today both descendant from the original Walker. They are the Running Walker Hound and the Treeing Walker Coonhound and mark their ancestors as the American Foxhound and the English Foxhound. The Treeing Walker is a breed developed in the United States when a “Tennessee Lead Dog” was crossed with a Walker Hound. The Running Walker is considered a Foxhound not a coonhound. They Running Walker does not have a treeing instinct and is not as common in hunting in the southern US as the Treeing Walker Coonhound.
In 1945 the United Kennel Club (UKC) recognized the Treeing Walker Coonhound and by the AKC (American Kennel Club) in 2012. They were developed to hunt and “tree” racoons – so the coonhound label. They also are capable of hunting bears, deer, bobcats and mountain lions. Their baying voice is distinctive that even at a great distance a hunter can recognize the voice of his dog.
Both types of Walkers are calm, gentle and friendly family dogs. The original Walker Hounds were bred in Kentucky by John Walker and George Maupin. The Walker Coonhound, Treeing was recognized as part of the English Coonhound breed by the UKC in 1905. In 1945, they were then recognized as their own breed by the UKC.
They have become the most popular hound competitor in coon hunt competitions. They are known for speed and an ability to catch more racoons in a shorter period of time than any other coonhound. They also tree squirrels, cougars. Opossums, roof rats and skunks.
The Coonhound, hailing from the United States of America, is a scenthound or hunting dog of which there are 6 distinct breeds which are recognized by the United Kennel Club.
Because foxhounds were regarded as inadequate for hunting, people started looking at the developlent of other hounds who had a keen sense of smell and the ability to track and animal effectively and without necessarily a human commanding it.
Foundation dogs were selected because of their keen sense of smell and Bloodhounds were also added to the Coonhound line to provide the Coonhound with superb tracking skills. Its precise origins are unknown but it is believed that many of the European hunting hounds were involved in its development as well as the Kerry Beagle and the FrenchBleu Gascogne hounds.
It was in 1912 that the first Black and Tans were registered with the United Kennel Club.  In 1945 the American Kennel followed.
This working dog is tall and lean with the males being somewhat larger than the females. They have broad skulls and hanging, long ears with a long muzzle. They have a soft expression in their dark eyes, straight legs and compact cat-like feet. The coat is smooth, glossy and fine. The traditional color is a tricolor or a bi-color in white with black and tan markings. The bicolors are white and tan or white and black. Their speed comes from the long , powerful and muscled legs and hindquarters along with the frame that is lean and streamlined.
Known also as the Black and Tan Coonhound, the Coonhound is a medium to large dog weighing 23–34kg and standing at 53-69cm. He makes an exceptional pet.
He has a short, dense coat of black and tan in color with tan markings around the muzzle. He has long, floppy ears and a long tail. With his long, strong, muscled legs he is able to pick up speed when on the hunt.  He is known for his deep, booming bark.
The Coonhound isn’t as jaunty as some other dog breeds but he is social, playful and friendly. He is even tempered and sensitive, and you’ll know when you’ve hurt his feelings as he gets a look about him of utter misery.
He definitely isn’t suited to apartment living and being left on his own, and is therefore not suited to an owner who works all day and leaves him on his own.  They just love human companionship, and enjoy taking part in all the activities of their owner's life.
Early training and socialization will be necessary to ensure he grows up calm, obedient, relaxed and confident. When he has been socialized he makes an excellent family pet, getting on well with children as well as with other pets in the home.
2.Special talents   Walkers are capable of covering a lot of ground in a hurry. Speed and treeing instinct.
The Coonhound is often described as a carefree, happy-go-lucky type of dog breed who is social and who just loves to spend time with his human family.
They just love their human family, and are full of mischievous tricks, being amusing and entertaining for the family.
He is a playful, gentle dog and he seems to keep his puppy nature much longer than with other dog breeds, but this is part of his appealing nature. He isn't a dog breed for everyone as some dog owners might want a more serious breed, but when trained and socialized, he promises to turn out to be an adored family pet.
The Treeing Walker Coonhound is a fairly healthy breed needing to watch out for accidents on the hunting trail from shrubs, brush and tree limbs. They can become tick infested if you are not careful, especially in their long ears that flop on the side of their head. Clean their ears weekly and check them after every run in the woods.
They are also prone to hip dysplasia and eye issues. Hip dysplasia can cause lameness and/or arthritis. Before to keep the ear clear of debris and wax to avoid ear infections.
Coonhounds usually enjoy very good health, but they can still suffer with any one of the more common dog illnesses there are. They’ve got long ears so they are more prone to ear infections. Also, hip dysplasia has been recorded too.
It is why so many breeders opt to have their dogs certified by the Orthopedic Foundation of America.
Mites, bacteria and yeast are all common problems, and your veterinarian can treat it and show you how to clean the dog’s ears to keep them free from infection in the future.
1Feeding the puppy – don’t overfeed. Feed quality medium size breed 3-4 small meals per day
2.Feeding the adult  – don’t overfeed. Feed quality medium size breed 1-2 small meals per day
running or hiking companion. long daily walks at a minimum. He loves to run and play with his family. Hunting and “coon trials” are his specialty and best ways to get exercise. He needs to run
Your Coonhound will want a lot of exercise. While you keep him on a leash when walking him or allowing him to run while you cycle, he’ll also want a place where he can run off the leash.
Even though the Coonhound is a short haired dog, he does shed. Making use of a rubber curry brush, brush him down twice a week to maintain his beautiful black, velvety coat.
Because he is an athletic outdoor dog, he may be more prone to picking up ticks and fleas and there are excellent shampoos available that keep these parasites at bay for a good many days.
--------------------------------------------------
The Treeing Walker Coonhound is a breed of hound descended from the English and American Foxhounds. The breed originated in the United States when a stolen dog known as "Tennessee Lead" was crossed into the Walker Hound in the 19th century.[1] The Treeing Walker Coonhound was recognized officially as a breed by the United Kennel Club in 1945 and by the American Kennel Club in 2012.
The Treeing Walker Coonhound was bred primarily to hunt raccoons, but it is also used on other game such as deer, bears, bobcats or cougars. The breed is vocal with a distinctive bay that allows its owner to identify their hound from great distances. It has a clear, ringing voice that changes to a steady chop at the tree. Treeing Walker Coonhounds tend to do best in working homes.
The Treeing Walker Coonhound was developed in the Colonial era from crosses of English Foxhounds. John W. Walker and George Washington Maupin, two breeders from Kentucky, which was then part of Virginia, are given credit for the breed's initial development.[2] The dogs they bred were referred to as Walker Hounds and were used to hunt raccoons.
In the 1800s, a stolen black and tan dog named Tennessee Lead was crossed into the Walker Hound. Tennessee Lead was of unknown origin, but he greatly influenced the Walker.[2] The Walker Coonhound, Treeing, was first recognized by the United Kennel Club (UKC) in 1905 as a part of the English Coonhound breed,[2] at the request of breeders. The name was later changed to Treeing Walker Coonhound, and it was fully recognized as a separate breed in 1945.[3] It was recognized by the American Kennel Club (AKC) in January 2012, making it the AKC's 174th recognized breed.[4][5]
The Treeing Walker Coonhound may give an impression of a working dog. According to the UKC standard, it may stand 20 to 27 inches high at maturity, with weight in proportion.[3] The common weight range is 50 to 70 pounds, with males being larger than females.[6][7]
The skull should be broad, with a long muzzle and long, hanging ears. Eyes are dark and have a soft expression. All four legs should be straight when viewed from the front or back, with cat-like, compact feet. In conformation shows, blindness or deafness is a disqualification.[3] 
The smooth coat is fine and glossy and comes in a tricolor and a bi-color pattern. Tricolor, white with black and tan markings, is preferred, although bi-color dogs, black and white or tan and white, are acceptable.[3]
The Treeing Walker Coonhound has a clear bay on the trail, which should change to a distinct "chop" when treed. Its temperament should be kind but fearless and courageous on the hunt.[3][8]
The Treeing Walker Coonhound is bred primarily for the mouth, looks, and ability. It is first and foremost a hunting dog,[9] although it may be kept as a pet. It is described as affectionate and good with children, but its energy requires an outlet and it must be trained.[10]
The Treeing Walker Coonhound lives an average of 12 to 13 years. [7]
Treeing Walker Coonhounds are loving, intelligent, confident, and enjoy interacting with humans. They make good companion dogs for an owner who understands the characteristics of the breed and is willing to work with their in-bred nature as a hunting dog. On the scent, they are tireless, alert, and intense. At home, they are mellow, sensitive lovers of comfort.
Treeing Walker Coonhounds get along well with other dogs and with children. Like most hounds, they are even-tempered and difficult to annoy or drive into aggression towards people or fellow dogs. With training, they will coexist with small animals such as cats, despite their nature as a small-game hunter. [citation needed]
The Treeing Walker Coonhound's strong tracking instincts make it popular as a hunting dog, primarily for bear, cougar, and bobcats.[11] Hunting solo or in packs of two or more, they are used to track and tree raccoons, bobcats,[12] cougars, and bears. Individual hounds may be adept at catching small animals such as squirrels, black rats, opossums, and skunks.
Because of their speed, Treeing Walker Coonhounds may be used as deer-hunting dogs in states where hunting of antlered animals with dogs is legal.[2]
Although the Treeing Walker is best known as a coonhound, it is one of the most cold nosed dogs around[a] and is the most popular hound for competition coon hunts.[2][14][15] The treeing walker hound is one of the most popular because it is best known for speed, its cold nose and intelligence, and also for not being an aggressive like the Plott. Their cold nose and intelligence makes them much better for bobcat and cougar hunting, since these animals are normally harder to track than a bear or raccoon.
--------------------------------------------------
LOST PET HOTLINE 1300 738 999
Thinking of owning a Treeing Walker Coonhound and would like to know if Treeing Walker Coonhounds are get along with cats?
Find out all about Treeing Walker Coonhound cat friendliness and how to make your Treeing Walker Coonhound safer with cats on this website.



A typical error a lot of individuals make is believing that all dogs dislike felines and all cats dislike pets. This isn’t real and there are lots of pet dog breeds that are good with felines. Canines that aren’t naturally feline friendly can likewise be trained to be much safer around felines.
From the opinion of experienced Treeing Walker Coonhound dog experts, Treeing Walker Coonhound dogs score  out of 5 in a scale of cat friendliness.



Regardless of the mistaken belief, a great deal of canines and cats can live together in harmony. Follow these easy to follow steps to understand how to best introduce your Treeing Walker Coonhound with a cat.


Not all Treeing Walker Coonhounds don’t like felines, some get along with them. When Treeing Walker Coonhounds do hate cats, of the most common reason is quite simple. Like all canines, Treeing Walker Coonhounds still hold onto some of the hunting reactions that they were originally reproduced for. This is why Treeing Walker Coonhounds like going after all moving things, whether it’s a toy, mouse, or a feline.
Since most felines will run away when they come across, it’s simple to see why they are understood for not being friendly with each other. Treeing Walker Coonhounds in fact take pleasure in chasing after cats not due to the fact that they hate them, however generally because a quick running animal activates a strong, natural impulse to chase overcomes any training or socialisation.


Training your Treeing Walker Coonhound to stop chasing cats takes time, practice and consistency, but the reward of not having to worry about them continually chasing is very well worth it. Here are the phases of how to stop your Treeing Walker Coonhound from chasing cats.


The very best technique to guarantee your Treeing Walker Coonhound would never kill a feline is to raise them with felines when they’re a puppy prior to 3 months old. At this age, they will usually wish to play with the cats and won’t see them as prey.
If your Treeing Walker Coonhound has actually eliminated a cat in the past, its best if you keep them in an open, enclosed area. When taking them for strolls try to avoid going after dusk and before dawn because that’s when felines are most active and likely to be wandering the streets.







Losing your Akita pet dog can be distressing both for you and your Akita. Follow these suggestions to help reunite with your Akita quicker.
1. Report your lost pet information on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found website here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Call your regional vet centers to see if anybody has actually handed in your missing pet.
4. Contact the RSPCA or go to the RSPCA Lost Pets site.
5. Contact your local animal shelters, find yours here.


It can be quite stressful when you discover a lost Akita dog or any animal that doesn’t have any ID tag with the owner’s information. Follow these pointers to assist reunite a lost Akita with their owner.
1. Report the found family pet details on the Pet Reunite Lost & Found site here.
2. Post on Local Lost Pets Facebook Groups Here.
3. Take the pet to your nearby veterinarian to see if they can scan the microchip and discover the owner.
4. Take the pet to your local animal shelter, find yours here.
5. Call your local council to gather the lost family pet.


Nowadays, numerous owners are reuniting with their lost animals through Lost & Found Pet Groups on Facebook. If you’re unsure how to use it, whether you lost an animal or found a pet, here are some practical tips to get you began.
1. Find your local Lost & Found Pet Groups and join as a lot of them as you can, find yours here.
2. Post the lost or found pet details on all the groups you joined, make certain to consist of images.
3. Keep an eye out for any replies or others publishing about the exact same family pet.
4. If someone posts about your lost pet or the pet you found be sure to get in contact with them ASAP.

Pet Net IDA: Unit 13, 11 – 13 Brookhollow AveNorwest, Sydney NSW 2153T: 1300 738 999 (1300 PET 999)
Copyright © 2021 Pet Net ID
--------------------------------------------------
Source © Shutterstock
There used to be a breed called the Walker Hound. However, the term tends to be used in the present to refer to a breed that came from the Walker Hound, which is called the Treeing Walker Coonhound. The name of the breed reveals much about its characteristics, thus making it an effective and efficient example of naming. Here are 10 things that you may or may not have known about the Walker Hound:
The Walker Hound came into existence in the state of Kentucky because of the efforts of a pair of breeders named John W. Walker and George Washington Maupin. Their dogs were called Walker Hounds, presumably because their dogs were used to hunt raccoons.
Treeing Walker Coonhounds came into existence because of a black and tan dog named Tennessee Lead. No one knows Tennessee Lead’s exact background, not least because the people who used him came upon him by pure chance. However, Tennessee Lead went on to have a huge impact on the dogs that would be collected under the name of Treeing Walker Coonhounds.
It took some time for the Treeing Walker Coonhounds to secure full recognition. For example, the United Kennel Club recognized it as a kind of English Coonhound in 1905, but it wasn’t recognized as a separate breed in its own right until 1945. Meanwhile, the American Kennel Club didn’t recognize it until January of 2012.
Unsurprisingly, the Treeing Walker Coonhound is good at treeing, which means chasing animals into the trees so that their owners can get a clear shoot. Primarily, the breed is used for hunting raccoons, but it isn’t unknown for them to see use in hunting bobcats, cougars, and even bears.
With that said, Treeing Walker Coonhounds aren’t limited to treeing animals. There are some examples that see use in hunting deer because they are fast enough to give chase. Likewise, there are other members of the breed that are used to hunt small rodents, though their exact capabilities in this regard can see significant variation from dog to dog.
Source © Shutterstock
Treeing Walker Coonhounds are far from being the sole breed of Coonhound that can be found out there. However, they are pretty popular because they are supposed to be less cold-nosed than a lot of their counterparts. Essentially, this means that Walker Coonhounds will ignore colder trails in preference for going after fresher trails, thus making them more efficient at their intended task.
Generally speaking, Treeing Walker Coonhounds are said to make for good companion animals. After all, they aren’t just loyal and loving, they are also smart and confident animals that enjoy interacting with humans. As a result, so long as people are willing to handle their hunting instincts, the breed can make for great pets.
Naturally, Treeing Walker Coonhounds need some kind of outlet for their considerable energy. This doesn’t necessarily have to be hunting, but whatever it turns out to be, it should provide them with plenty of physical stimulation as well as plenty of mental stimulation.
As such, it is no wonder that Treeing Walker Coonhounds are said to get along well with children, thus making them good family dogs as well. With that said, interested individuals should still make sure that their dogs receive proper socialization while also making sure that their children understand how to interact with dogs because that will always be beneficial for such cases.
Speaking of which, Treeing Walker Coonhounds can get along pretty well with other dogs, thus making them suitable for multi-dog households. Their record with other pet animals is less consistent, but there are claims that they can get along fine with cats and other smaller pet animals so long as they have been trained right to tolerate said animals’ presence. Otherwise, their hunting instincts can cause potential complications.
Henry is an animal lover, pure and simple.  He's been covering dogs and cats and a freelance and full-time writer since 2010.  Henry's been with Puppytoob and Kittentoob nearly his entire career.   Currently he has 2 dogs, one cat, a turtle, and even a parakeet!  He's obsessed with keeping his animals healthy, happy, and even entertained.
Source © Shutterstock Since most everyone in the country watches Modern Family you should know precisely what a French bulldog looks like. It’s Jay’s beloved little Stella, the tiny little dog with the fun ears…
Source © Shutterstock Generally speaking, when people hear the term “husky,” they will think of the Siberian Husky. However, if there is a Siberian Husky, it stands to reason that there are other huskies that…
Dogs are beloved companions for millions of people worldwide. Their loyalty, affection, and ability to bring joy make them popular pets for families and individuals alike. However, not all dog breeds are equally suitable for…
Source © Shutterstock It is deeply concerning that a dog was found in a dumpster in Warren, Ohio, seemingly having been discarded like trash. The dog appeared to be shaken and injured, leading to concern…
Source © Shutterstock Shih Tzu is the Chinese word for little lion. This is as these dogs were bred to resemble the king of the jungle. Who would have thought that these delightful little pups…
Source © Shutterstock The Maltipoo is a designer dog created using the Maltese and the Poodle . These dogs have a reputation for being excellent companions. As a result, if interested individuals are looking for…
You must be logged in to post a comment.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
--------------------------------------------------
