Photo: Jindřich Blecha/Getty Images
Last Updated on March 1, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Welsh Springer Spaniel is a gun dog that originates from Wales and was first bred to spring game for its hunters. Today, it makes a good all-round pet, potentially adapting to life in an apartment and generally getting along with people and other animals. It does have high energy requirements, however, and they do require plenty of human attention.
The Welsh Springer forms a close bond with its family and will become an inseparable part of the family unit, enjoying getting to spend as much time with its humans as possible.
Height:
16 – 20 inches
Weight:
35 – 45 pounds
Lifespan:
12 – 15 years
Colors:
Red, white
Suitable for:
Active owners who enjoy dog training and spending time outdoors
Temperament:
Loyal, loving, affectionate, friendly, intelligent, responsive, energetic
The Welsh Springer Spaniel is friendly, typically with everybody they meet, as well as families of all ages. It is a gentle dog that will follow its humans around and isn’t afraid to show its affection.
However, this does mean that the breed can suffer separation anxiety if left alone for long periods. This excludes owners who are out at work all day, and while the breed is friendly and non-aggressive, it is advised that potential owners have experience in training dogs, so it may not be the ideal choice for a first-time owner.
To aid in training and socialization, it can be a good idea to sign a Welsh Springer Spaniel up for canine sports activities.

Although they have quite a strong following, Welsh Springer Spaniels remain an uncommon breed of Springer Spaniel, with the English Springer proving more easy to find. However, there are breeders out there so if you’re willing to put in the time and effort you can find a Welshie breeder. Do your due diligence when settling on a breeder. Ensure that they have sanitary and comfortable living conditions and that the parents have been screened for common health problems. Meet the puppies and the mother before agreeing to purchase, and ensure that the puppies are lively and that they engage with you when you visit.
Alternatively, you may find puppies and adult Welsh Springer Spaniels in rescues. The breed is very energetic and can suffer separation anxiety so these are two possible reasons why former owners may have given their dogs up. Speak to the rescue to try and get as much history about the dog as possible. Determine whether they are good with other dogs, cats, and people, and if you have dogs of your own, have them meet the Welshie before you adopt.
The Welsh Springer does need training from a young age, especially to ensure that it doesn’t jump up and that it knows when enough is enough. The breed has a lot of energy and is always up for playtime, and you can use this to your advantage when training. But even as a puppy, the Springer needs to be given lots of physical exercise and mental stimulation.
Spaniels first originated in Spain, before making their way to various countries, including England and Wales. Originally, all Spaniels were classified as Cocker Spaniels. Then, they were separated into Water and Land Spaniels, with the Welsh Springer Spaniel being a Water Spaniel type. They became popular during the 18th Century, used as hunting dogs by nobility and while they lost favor, with English Springer Spaniels being preferred, they enjoyed a renaissance during the Victorian era.
The Welsh Springer Spaniel was recognized by the British Kennel Club in 1902 and by the American Kennel Club in 1906, having been imported to the U.S. in the late 19th Century.

The Welsh Springer Spaniel is a friendly and loving dog that makes a great companion but is demanding of its owner’s time and companionship, which means it may not be suitable for owners who go out to work all day. If you do work and take on a Welshie, you will need to ensure they get lots of exercise, and have plenty of stimulation, and you should consider getting a walker or dropping your pup off at doggy daycare.
Although the Welshie does require a lot of exercise, they can adapt to life in an apartment. Again, you will need to ensure they get a lot of exercise, in the shape of long walks, runs, and potentially through canine sports and classes. Alternatively, they will enjoy being given access to a large outdoor area to run around and play in.
As a working dog, the Welsh Springer Spaniel does like to be given tasks and takes well to training. They are responsive dogs that are eager to please, too, which is a good combination for training purposes.
Although loving with family and typically friendly with other dogs, the Welsh Springer Spaniel can be shy around strangers. Early and ongoing socialization will help teach the breed that it doesn’t need to be afraid of new people or different situations, so you should start socializing as soon as you get your puppy home.
The Welsh Springer Spaniel may have originated as a working dog but has become known for being a loving and loyal family dog. They are gentle dogs, which means they are suitable for children and will form a close bond with their owners.
The breed thrives on companionship, so if you are planning days out or exercise outdoors, plan on taking your Spaniel with you. The breed doesn’t tend to favor one family member over another and will grow close to those who feed, walk, or give them affection. After meeting visitors, the Springer will warm up to them and greet them as friends next time they visit.
They will usually get along with family dogs and cats, although early introductions always help ensure that the new dog will integrate into the pet family. Take introductions slowly and give the new dog and existing pets plenty of space.
Also, ensure they both have their own area to retreat to and if one of the pets is a cat, provide a high space for the cat to escape to. Springers are bred to flush birds out of tall grass, so while they won’t necessarily chase cats or other small animals, you do have to watch them around birds. Never leave your dog unattended with a small animal out of its enclosure, including birds.

The Welsh Springer Spaniel makes a good family pet and can be a good pet for children, as well as adults. They can be a little standoffish around strangers, although this shouldn’t materialize as aggression, and the Welshie will eventually warm to new people. However, they do need a lot of exercise and companionship, so might not be the ideal pet for all potential owners.
This medium breed is an energetic dog that needs a lot of exercise, which means it also has a big appetite for its size. If feeding a high-quality kibble, expect to provide between two and three cups of food per day. This should be split into two evenly sized meals, and some dogs benefit from having their daily rations split into three meals. The amount you feed can be adjusted slightly up or down depending on whether your dog is very active or not, and according to whether he needs to lose or gain weight.
Follow the manufacturer’s guidelines on canned food to ensure that you’re feeding an appropriate amount and remember that treats should not account for more than 10% of your dog’s total daily calorie intake. So, choose healthy treats that are low in calories if you intend to use them for training and as high-value rewards.
Your dog should be given unfettered access to fresh drinking water.
Probably the biggest challenge of owning the Welsh Springer is the amount of exercise they require. You will need to provide at least 2 hours a day. This can include walks, but they will benefit from engaging in higher-intensity exercise. If you like running, take your Welshie with you. If you like going on long hikes, take your new dog with you.
Alternatively, consider canine sports classes like flyball or agility. Not only do these provide plenty of physical exercise but they also offer an opportunity for the two of you to bond. They’re also great for socialization and they provide mental stimulation, too. Because the Spaniel is easily trained and enjoys pleasing you, they will take well to most forms of canine sports.
The Welsh Springer Spaniel is an intelligent dog that was bred to follow commands. They thrive on being given tasks to do and enjoy pleasing their owners, which makes training very possible. However, the high energy and mental acuity of the breed also means that training needs to be ongoing and persistent. If you don’t train a Spaniel, it will train itself, and its idea of good behavior and yours may not marry.
Although the breed needs persistent and consistent training, it doesn’t do well with harsh training methods. Use positive reinforcement to promote the behaviors you want and ignore unwanted behavior. Although the Welshie responds well to lots of verbal and physical praise, edible treats can also help facilitate effective training and learning.
Socialization is important for all dogs, especially for dogs that can be shy around strangers. Ensure your Welsh Springer Spaniel meets new people and has the opportunity to mix with other dogs from as young an age as possible. If you get a Springer pup, socialization should start straight away. If you take on an adult dog, start as soon as possible. It is never too late to socialize.
Puppy classes are a good way to start your training efforts. You will learn training techniques, and your puppy will learn some basic commands that will stand you both in good stead, and puppy classes also offer a great opportunity to socialize your dog with others. Canine sports classes also offer training and socialization opportunities, while allowing you to burn off some of your high-intensity dog’s physical energy.
The Springer’s coat is designed to protect against inclement weather and water. It is long, thick, and smooth. While the coat is usually easy to brush, it will need brushing every day to ensure that it doesn’t get knotted. At the very least you will need to brush three times a week. Not only will it keep your dog comfortable, but it will also help minimize the impact of shedding. Because the breed enjoys swimming and will jump in rivers and even puddles at any given opportunity, fairly regular baths will be needed. At the very least, have pet wipes handy to quickly get rid of dirt and grime.
Nails will need regular trimming, especially if your dog gets all of its exercise on soft ground like grass. Generally, nail trimming will need to be done every 2 months, but you can do it sooner if you start to hear the nails clicking on hard floors.
Check inside the ears when you brush your dog, especially if it likes to jump in water, and do check for ticks in the coat. Teeth should be brushed at least three times a week, but ideally every day. Dental chews are not an adequate replacement for regular brushing and dental checkups.
Although a generally healthy breed, there are some hereditary conditions that the Welsh Springer Spaniel is more prone to. Springers are prone to hip dysplasia, which means that the hip bones have not formed properly or do not sit properly in the hip joint. It can be painful and lead to arthritis, and dogs with hip dysplasia should not be used to breed puppies.
Ask for screening results to show that the parent dogs were clear of dysplasia. Other possible conditions include entropion and epilepsy.
If you see signs of any of the following conditions, speak to a vet and have your dog checked over.
The male Welsh Springer Spaniel will grow to be a little heavier and bigger than the female. Males can also be more playful but more prone to wanderlust, while females are prone to mood swings but tend to be easier to handle.
However, the character of the individual dog plays a more significant role in determining the dog’s traits, rather than gender. Ensuring your dog is well socialized and trained, from a young age, will help ensure a well-rounded adult dog.

While English Springer Spaniels can come in a couple of different colors and markings, Welsh Springer Spaniels are only recognized in brown and white. Any pattern of coloring is acceptable, but brown and white are the only two colors that can be seen in the coat.
Expect to give your Welsh Springer Spaniel at least 2 hours of exercise every day. While this can include walks, the breed will benefit from more intense forms of exercise. They do well at canine sports including agility and flyball.
The breed is gentle, and understanding, and forms a close bond with all of its human family members. It can do well in a family with children, and especially with those who are willing and able to throw a ball around and play with the pup.

The Welsh Springer Spaniel is an uncommon breed that looks and has similar characteristics to the English Springer Spaniel but is a different breed. It is a working breed, which means they do need a lot of exercise, but are also considered easy to train, loyal, and loving. It makes a good family pet, but the family needs to be prepared to offer a lot of physical exercise and mental stimulation to keep it entertained.
The Welshie can suffer separation anxiety and will expect to be involved in virtually everything their family gets up to. But they will take to outdoor adventures and will also gladly settle down on the couch with their humans in the evening.
See also:
Featured Image Credit: dexter_cz, Shutterstock
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Matt is a freelance writer from the UK. He lives with his partner and daughter, as well as two cats and one dog.
A data analyst by profession, Matt moved from numbers to words more than 15 years ago and has been writing ever since. Having volunteered at a local animal sanctuary, he has a lot of experience with dogs, cats, and horses. Matt has also kept bearded dragons, a variety of birds, fish, guinea pigs, hamsters, mice, and rats. His daughter has adopted the same passion for animals, keeping and breeding snakes.
A geek at heart, Matt is a member of a local board gaming group and regularly forces his family to “enjoy” board games with him at home.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
This subject is covered in detail in Breed Standard Comparaison
The males will generally weigh 40-55 lbs., and females weigh 35-50 lbs. Males are generally 18-19 inches tall at the shoulder, females 17-18 inches.
For a more complete description of the breed, please see the Welsh Springer Illustrated Breed Standard
Yes. The Welsh Springer is often referred to as a “Velcro” dog and generally prefers to be with his people rather than with other dogs (except maybe other Welsh Springer’s as they can be very clannish). He also knows when to protect and guard without becoming aggressive or mean.
Are they good with children?  Yes, however dogs and young children/toddlers should not be left unsupervised. Young children and toddlers do not know how to behave around a pet of any type.
Are they good with cats?  They can co-exist with cats, but it may take some training.
Are they good with other pets like birds/rabbits/ferrets? They can co-exist but don’t forget that the Welsh was bred to hunt upland game, which includes birds and rabbits.  It would not be a good thing to have the bird/rabbit/ferret loose with the dog at the same time, especially unsupervised.
Most Welsh puppies will train themselves and will try to wait until they are taken outside. Normally if you have an accident in the home it is the owners fault, not the puppies.
With appropriate training and exercise.  Otherwise, they will make you and your neighbors very unhappy.
Some Welsh have been known to be very vocal, but with training and maturity, most Welsh are not nuisance barkers.
They need a couple of good hard walks each day or romps in the yard.  The walks are good for clearing your head before and after going to work.  The walks make an excellent source of exercise for both the human and dog.
At what age can I start letting my Welsh Springer jog with me? The Welsh Springer puppy grows at a phenomenal rate. Most will have full height, though not mature, by the time they are nine-ten months of age. While you can allow them to start jogging with you on a limited basis after they are full sized, to prevent possible joint and bone structural damage, it is best to wait until they are more mature (over one year).
Reminder: It is always best to get advice from your puppy’s breeder on training and exercise routines.
While not an absolute necessity, it certainly helps. If you are in a city apartment situation you should, at a minimum, have a park, walk area or play area close-by. Some Welsh Springer breeders require that you have a fenced yard prior to obtaining a puppy from them.
Reminder: It is always best to get advice from your puppy’s breeder on raising your pet so it becomes your best companion.
No. WSSCA and it members have worked very hard to ensure that there is no divergence in the standard between the performance event dog and family pet. A much loved “couch potato” is just as likely to have a Champion title and/or be an Obedience, Hunting, Agility or Tracking title holder.
Are they easy to train?  Welsh are fairly easy to train as long as you are fair, use treats and break the exercise down into the simple components for the dog to learn.
Yes. The Welsh Springer possesses an excellent nose and is a natural hunter. The Welsh Springer may not be as “flashy” a worker as some of the other breeds, but if there is a bird in the field he will bring it up for you.
To view the Welsh at work, please see our video The Working Welshman
Welsh Springer breeders generally require that their puppies going into pet homes be spayed or neutered. The female will normally come into season approximately every 6 to 8 months and this can sometimes prove very difficult if the owner is not prepared to deal with the situation.
When should the puppy be spayed or neutered?  There are different schools of thought on when to have your pet spayed or neutered; these should be discussed with your puppy’s breeder before purchase. Studies have shown that it is better in the long term to wait until the puppy is older before sterilization procedures take place. For more information read The Health Implications of Early Spay and Neuter by the AKC Canine Health Foundation.
I have heard that after your dog has been spayed or neutered that their coat often becomes “cottony”. Is this true?  It’s not always the case, but it is not unusual for the soft, silky coat to have a more cottony texture after the dog has been altered.  With good, consistent grooming this can be kept under control and should not pose a problem.
Reminder: It is always best to get advice from your puppy’s breeder whether to spay or neuter.
The young male Welsh Springer (under one year) is normally more easy-going than the female Welsh Springer with more of a “let’s wait and see attitude”. The young female Welsh Springer is normally more inquisitive and “busy” and is always checking and getting into things. As they age there is little to no difference between the male or female.

CONTACT WEBMASTER
--------------------------------------------------
🐶 $60 OFF DNA Tests | Shop Now
🐱 Buy two or more, save up to $70 on each
🚚 Free US shipping & returns
Discover your dog's connection to this breed and 200+ others
The Welsh Springer Spaniel is a breed of dog that originates from Wales in the United Kingdom. It's a very old breed, dating back at least several hundred years. The breed was used by hunters for flushing game, like pheasants and rabbits, out of the underbrush. Their name comes from their hunting style – “springing” game.

In the early years of dog showing, any spaniel that was not a Clumber, Irish, or Sussex was classified as a Welsh Springer Spaniel. The breed was officially recognized by the United Kingdom Kennel Club in 1902 and by the American Kennel Club in 1914.
Welsh Springer Spaniels are known to be generally healthy dogs, but as a larger breed they are at risk for developing orthopedic problems, such as hip and elbow dysplasia. Genetic testing is recommended, including for the following specific conditions: hyperuricosoria, Factor VII deficiency, degenerative myelopathy, and progressive rod-cone degeneration.
Welsh Springer Spaniels are known for their friendly and affectionate nature. They are typically good with children and other dogs, and their hunting background makes them energetic and enthusiastic. They enjoy play and exercise, and need a moderate amount of physical activity to keep them healthy and content. They are intelligent dogs, but can be somewhat independent, which may require a bit of patience when it comes to training.
Even though they're known as "Springer" Spaniels, Welsh Springers are a separate breed from English Springer Spaniels.The Welsh Springer Spaniel is considered a rarer breed, especially outside of the United Kingdom.Welsh Springer Spaniels are often called "Velcro dogs" because they tend to form strong bonds with their families and like to stay close to them.
https://vgl.ucdavis.edu/breed/welsh-springer-spanielhttps://www.akc.org/dog-breeds/welsh-springer-spaniel/https://www.ukcdogs.com/welsh-springer-spanielhttps://www.fci.be/en/nomenclature/WELSH-SPRINGER-SPANIEL-126.htmlhttps://www.hillspet.com/dog-care/dog-breeds/welsh-springer-spanielhttps://www.wssca.com/
Recommended by top vets with decades of experience
21 breeds
64 genetic health markers
50 genetic trait markers
--------------------------------------------------
Follow Us:
Written by
Written by:
Author: Elle Veranth
A copywriter for articles and blogs about pet care, food, beverage, and business. 
Has always had a passion for writing and editing, but began taking freelancing seriously fairly recently.
Learn about our editorial process and veterinary review board.
Viewed: 135
Updated on: 04/28/2022
Dogs in the Spaniel family are loved for many reasons. They have long, beautiful coats, and loving personalities, and they keep their families on their toes with their antics. The English Cocker Spaniel and the English Springer Spaniel are quite popular dogs, but what about the Welsh Springer Spaniel dog breed?
Welsh Springer Spaniels, or “Welshies” for short, are a medium-sized breed that was bred to hunt. They are larger than an English Cocker Spaniel but smaller than English Springer Spaniels. Out of all the dogs in the Spaniel family, Welsh Springer Spaniels are some of the rarest. Welshies are a happy-go-lucky breed and are extremely intelligent and loyal. Read on to find out more about them.
Welsh Springer Spaniels are amazing family dogs with lots of energy. Below are the breed traits: [1]
As their name suggests, the Welsh Springer Spaniel hails from the country of Wales. It is believed that they were developed in the 13th century to be used for hunting. Not too much history is known about this stunning breed, but their hunting skills are unmatched.
Welshies are excellent at retrieving small animals, such as birds. The term “Springer” in their name stems from their hunting technique. They spook the animal, which causes it to spring from its hiding place. Welshies then fetch any game and bring it back to the hunter.
Out of all the dogs in the Spaniel family, Welsh Springers are among the rarest. The Welsh Springer Spaniel Club of America, a breed club, states that there are only about 300 Welshie puppies that are registered with the American Kennel Club each year. [2] They are an AKC-recognized breed.
The Welsh Springer Spaniel temperament is happy and lively. Like most spaniel-type dogs, Welsh Springers enjoy being in the presence of their family. It is not uncommon for them to be “shadow dogs,” meaning they follow their owner if they get up to move to a different room. Because of this, sometimes Welshies can be prone to separation anxiety. They do not enjoy being left alone for long periods. This is something that needs to be strongly considered before bringing a Welsh Springer Spaniel into your home.
Welshies are also known to be great with children, especially children who are a part of their pack. Just remember to always supervise young children around dogs. Sometimes, Welshies can be shy and reserved with strangers and other dogs, so early socialization is a must when they are young.
The Welsh Springer Spaniel is an active breed. These energetic dogs love to explore the outdoors with their family by their side. After all, they are natural hunting dogs and will need to burn off that pent-up energy somehow! You don’t need to be a small game hunter to own a Welsh Springer Spaniel, but just know that they require vigorous exercise and mental stimulation to keep them healthy and happy. They tend to be naturals at dog sports as well.
A Welshie could live in an apartment as long as they get outside to walk and play enough during the day. Ideally, a walk that is at least 40 minutes will suffice. This time can also be broken up into smaller increments. If you have a backyard, many Welshies love to play fetch with tennis balls or other toys. They could also be entertained with a puzzle game to keep their mind sharp.
A fun fact about Welshies is that they have slightly webbed feet. If you use a Welshie as a hunting dog, they can retrieve fallen game from the water. If you find that your Welshie enjoys swimming, that can be a great form of exercise for them. Throw a buoyant toy for them to fetch and watch them have a great time.
There is a lot that goes into caring for any dog. Their diet, grooming needs, and potential health problems need to be considered. Here is some general information about caring for a Welsh Springer Spaniel.
It is natural for a dog’s diet to change throughout its lifetime. A puppy does not need to eat as much food as an adult dog so their food intake will need to be adjusted as they grow. In general, Welsh Springer Spaniels should be fed high-quality dog food. This food can be purchased or cooked at home in your kitchen.
Some dogs have allergies to certain meats, so keep an eye out for any kind of allergic reaction. When in doubt about your dog’s food, it is best to consult your vet. They will be able to point you in the right direction and provide recommendations based on your dog’s needs.
RELATED: Best Fresh Dog Food Delivery Services
Welshies have beautiful, medium-length, light feathered red and white coats. This silky coat will require weekly grooming to keep them looking their best, but it is easy to do it at home. All they need is a weekly brushing with a soft-bristle brush. It is also a good idea to have a metal comb (one meant for dogs) on hand so you can comb through any tangles or mats.
Taking your Welshie to a professional groomer for a haircut is optional. They will be able to recommend the best cut for them, which will likely be just a trim. Welshies should be bathed monthly, [4] unless they appear visibly dirty.
In general, Welshies are healthy dogs. However, they can be prone to hip dysplasia, elbow dysplasia, thyroid problems, and eye disease. Responsible Welshie breeders will test for these conditions. [4] Spaniel-type dogs have long ears that can be prone to infection, so they should be inspected regularly. Remember to take your dog to the vet for regular check-ups.
If you decide to bring a Welshie into your family, you will more than likely need to purchase one from a reputable breeder. Such a breeder puts the health and well-being of their dogs first. They will be very transparent about the litter’s parents, where the dogs are housed, and any known health problems.
Since Welsh Springer Spaniels are not very common, you may have to travel to a breeder. An excellent resource for finding a breeder is the Welsh Springer Spaniel Club of America (WSSCA) website. They even have a published code of ethics. A link to their website can be found here. The cost of a Welsh Springer Spaniel puppy depends on their breeding, but they can cost anywhere between $1,200 and $3,500. [5]
READ MORE: Unique Dog Dames That Start With D
Although they are rare, there are still groups that specialize in Welsh Springer Spaniel rescue. The WSSCA even rescues Welshies in need and helps place them in new, loving homes. There is a document on their website that lays out the rescue committee guidelines and the criteria that a new owner would need to meet to adopt one of their rescue Welshies. Also, bear in mind that if you purchase a Welsh Springer from the WSSCA (whether it is from a registered breeder or as a rescue), they will call you periodically to check in on how the dog is adapting to its new life. They may also come to visit your property.
It would be highly unlikely to find a Welsh Springer Spaniel available for adoption at your local animal shelter, but it would not hurt to go take a look. Shelters take in new dogs every day. You never know what breeds you may see!
READ MORE: How to Adopt a Retired Military Dog?
The Welsh Springer Spaniel is a gorgeous and unique breed. They thrive with owners who will participate in an active lifestyle with them and don’t mind that they will follow them everywhere around the house. These dogs love to be included in family adventures and, in turn, they will provide you with a lifetime of loyalty and love.
Yes, they are an excellent choice for a family dog. They are known for being extremely loyal to their pack. If you bring a Welshie into your family, get ready for them to latch onto you. They are also great with children.
Welshies tend to not be very vocal. They will bark to alert their family, but typically not beyond that. They may also bark if they experience separation anxiety.
Regarding the Spaniel dog family, Welshies are on the rare side. It is estimated that only 300 Welsh Springer Spaniel puppies are registered with the American Kennel Club annually.
Article Sources:
--------------------------------------------------
Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
The Welsh Springer Spaniel is an active lively and affectionate breed that was originally bred to be a gundog a job they are known to excel at. However over the years these attractive spaniels have found their way into the hearts and homes of many people thanks to their reliable temperaments charming looks and the fact they are especially good around children making them an ideal family pet
Welshies are better suited to people who lead active outdoor lives and who like to have an energetic intelligent canine companion at their side and a dog that enjoys taking part in all sorts of canine sports and activities with many Welsh Springer Spaniels still being used in a working environment where they have always been highly prized.
The Welsh Springer Spaniel is an ancient breed and one that has been depicted in works of art that date back to the 16th century. They were originally known as "Welsh Spaniels" and were bred to hunt game. They were commonly seen in Wales as well as in the west of England where they were also used to drive cattle and to herd flocks of sheep. These red and white spaniel’s ancestries can be traced back to the 18th Century but spaniels with the same colouring can be traced even further back to the 16th Century.
With this said the actual origins of the breed remain unknown but it is thought that the breed came about by crossing hounds as well as gundogs that were around both in Europe and Britain at the time. Many Welsh gentry kept spaniels during the 18th Century. However centuries later these hardworking loyal dogs became popular in other regions of the country and soon became highly prized gundogs all over the country. There are some people who believe Welsh Springer Spaniels were crossed with Corgis at some point in time but this is yet to be confirmed as true.
Welsh Springer Spaniels proved to be extremely versatile dogs that boasted a strong hunting instinct when asked to "spring or start" game. By the 19th and 20th centuries they became popular in other countries of the world which included America Australia and India. They were originally called Welsh Cockers but when the breed was recognised by The Kennel Club in 1902 their name was changed to Welsh Springer Spaniel.
Today these charming dogs are gaining popularity with people who are looking to share their homes with an energetic loyal and intelligent companion and one that enjoys being in the great outdoors with their owners whenever they can.
Height at the withers: Males 46 - 48 cm Females 43 - 46 cm
Average weight: Males 16 - 20 kg Females 16 - 20 kg
They have medium sized dark or hazel eyes and their ears are set quite low. A dog's ears are quite small tapering at the tip being the shape of a vine leaf and they hang close to their cheeks. The Welsh Springer Spaniel has a strong jaw with a perfect scissor bite where their upper teeth neatly overlap their lower ones. They have long muscular clean cut necks that merge smoothly into a dog's shoulders. Their front legs are a medium length being well boned and straight.
When it comes to their coat the Welsh Springer Spaniel boasts having a flat or straight dense silky coat with their front and back legs being nicely feathered whereas their ears and tails are just lightly feathered. The only accepted breed colour for Kennel Club registration is as follows:
The Kennel Club frowns on any exaggerations or departures from the breed standard and would judge the faults on how much they affect a dog's overall health and wellbeing as well as their ability to perform.
Males should have both testicles fully descended into their scrotums and it is worth noting that a dog can be a little lighter or heavier as well as slightly taller or shorter than set out in the Kennel Club breed standard which is only given as a guideline.
Welsh Springer Spaniels are known to be good natured dogs that are just at home in the field as they are in a family environment. They have kindly dispositions although when young like many other spaniel breeds they can be a little boisterous and high spirited. However as they mature Welshies tend to settle down. They have become very popular over recent years thanks to their charming looks and their loyal and affectionate natures which when paired to the fact they are so intelligent and eager to please makes them the ideal family pet for people who love to spend time in the great outdoors.
They form extremely strong bonds with their owners and thrive in a home environment loving nothing more than to be involved in everything that goes on in a household. They are exceptionally people-oriented dogs and as such they do not like to be left on their own for any length of time. With this in mind they are best suited to families where at least one person stays at home when everyone else is out of the house. If left alone for too long a Welsh Springer Spaniel could develop separation anxiety which can lead to them becoming neurotic and stressed out.
Although exceptionally friendly with their families Welsh Springer Spaniels can be wary and aloof around people they have never met before but rarely would they show any sort of aggression towards a stranger preferring to keep their distance and letting their owners know there are people about which in short means they are very good watch dogs. Welsh Springer Spaniels are highly intelligent and they boast a tremendous amount of stamina. They are an ideal choice for first time dog owners providing they have the time to dedicate to a smart high-spirited canine companion and a spaniel that enjoys spending as much time as possible in the great outdoors.
It's important for these dogs to be well socialised from a young age so they grow up to be confident outgoing mature dogs. Their socialisation must include introducing them to lots of new situations noises people other animals and dogs once they have been fully vaccinated. It's also crucial for their training to start early too and it should be consistent throughout a dog's life. A Welsh Springer Spaniel is never happier than when they know their place in the pack and who they can look to for direction and guidance. If they don't know who is the alpha dog in a household they may quickly take on the role of dominant dog which can make them harder to live with and handle.
Welshies are the perfect choice for first time dog owners because they are so amenable and people-oriented loving nothing more than to please and to entertain their families. However they are quite high maintenance on the exercise front which means owners need to have the time to keep these intelligent spaniels occupied both mentally and physically for them to be truly happy dogs. They are particularly good with young children and older people too although playtime can get a bit boisterous at times.
Although Welshies are extremely social by nature they have a high prey drive and can track down the tiniest of scents when the mood takes them. The good news is they are so eager to please that with the correct training a Welsh Springer Spaniel will listen to the command "leave it" when asked. However this is not to say that a dog won't chase the cat from next door whenever they can.
Welsh Springer Spaniels have a very playful side to their natures and love to entertain and be entertained. They are known to be a little mischievous when the mood takes them and being so clever with such good "noses" they can sniff out the tiniest bit of food that's fallen under a sofa cushion which they will retrieve with delight. They adore playing interactive games and are especially good at many canine sports which includes agility and obedience.
Welshies are better suited to people who have secure back gardens they can roam around in whenever possible so they get to let off steam. As such they are not well suited to apartment living which could see a WSS getting bored and being destructive around the home.
Welsh Springers form extremely strong ties with their families and dogs are never very happy when they find themselves left on their own for longer periods of time. They are better suited to people who either work from home or in households where one person stays at home when everyone else is out so they are never alone for any length of time which could see a dog suffering from separation anxiety. This can lead to them being destructive around the home which is a dog's way of relieving any stress they are feeling and a way to keep themselves entertained.
Welshies are not known to be "barkers" although a bored dog would quickly voice their unhappiness at the fact they are left on their own or not being kept busy enough.
Most Welshies love swimming and will take to the water whenever they can more especially when the weather is hot. It's essential to thoroughly dry off a dog's ears when they have been in the water to prevent any infections from flaring up. However if anyone who owns a dog that does not like water should never force them to go in because it would just end up scaring them. With this said care should always be taken when walking a Welshie off the lead anywhere near more dangerous watercourses just in case a dog decides to leap in and then needs rescuing because they cannot get out of the water on their own.
Welshies are not natural watchdogs although this is not to say a dog would not be quick off the mark to let an owner know when there are strangers about although they would rarely do this aggressively preferring to bark before running up to say hello to anyone who comes to the door.
Welsh Springer Spaniels are highly intelligent and love nothing more than to please. As such in the right hands and environment they are very easy to train. They are renowned for being excellent working gundogs and always do well when taking part in obedience trials. Their training must begin early and it should be consistent and always fair throughout a dog’s life so they understand what's expected of them. Welsh Springer Spaniels are never happier than when they are given something to do which is why they are so amenable to learning new things.
They excel at many canine sports which includes activities like flyball agility and obedience because they thrive on the attention they are given during their training and the one-to-one contact when competing with their handlers. The key to successfully training a Welshie is to make their training as interesting as possible and to avoid too much repetition. It's also a good idea to keep training sessions short which helps dogs stay more focused on what it’s being asked of them bearing in mind that the more intelligent a dog is the faster they get bored bearing in mind that Welshies are exceptionally smart dogs.
They do not answer well to harsh correction or any sort of heavy handed training methods but they do respond extremely well to positive reinforcement which always brings the best out of these intelligent and quick-witted dogs especially when there are high value rewards involved taking care not to over-do food rewards because Welshies are prone to put on too much weight far too easily.
They are known to have a bit of a stubborn streak which means they need to be trained with a firm fair and gentle hand showing a dog lots of patience and understanding. It's also important to pay particular attention to the "recall command" because Welshies are known to wander off if they think there is something more interesting in the distance.
Welshie puppies are incredibly cute and like all puppies playtime can be boisterous at times. It is all too easy to spoil a puppy when they first arrive in their new home but it is important for owners to start out as they mean to go on which means that as soon as a puppy is settled in boundaries and rules must be set out so that they understand what is expected of them. Puppies need to be taught the ground rules and what is acceptable behaviour and what is not. It also helps establish a pecking order and who is alpha dog in a household. The first commands a WSS puppy should be taught are as follows:
The Welsh Springer is an ideal family pet thanks to their kind dispositions and the fact they adore being part of a family. They can be a little high spirited when young which means they might accidentally knock a toddler over. As such any interaction between very young children and a dog should always be supervised by an adult to make sure playtime doesn't get too boisterous.
Because they are so kindly Welshies tend to get on well with other dogs they meet more especially if puppies have been well socialised from a young enough age. When they grow up with a cat in a household they usually get on well together. However a Welshie might just chase any other cats they meet because they would see them as fair game. Care must be taken when they are around smaller animals just in case they decide to chase them. As such any contact is best avoided.
The average life expectancy of a Welsh Springer Spaniel is between 12 and 15 years when properly cared for and fed an appropriate good quality diet to suit their ages.
The Welshie is known to suffer from a few hereditary health issues which are worth knowing about if you are planning share your home with one of these handsome energetic and loyal dogs. The conditions that seem to affect the breed the most include the following:
Welshie puppies would have been given their initial vaccinations before being sold but it is up to their new owners to make sure they have their follow-up shots in a timely manner with the vaccination schedule for puppies being as follows:
There has been a lot of discussion about the need for dogs to have boosters. As such it's best to talk to a vet before making a final decision on whether a dog should continue to have annual vaccinations which are known as boosters.
These days a lot of vets recommend waiting until dogs are slightly older before spaying and neutering them which means they are more mature before undergoing the procedures. As such they advise neutering males and spaying females when they are between the ages of 6 to 9 months old and sometimes even when a dog is 12 months old.
Other vets recommend spaying and neutering dogs when they are 6 months old but never any earlier unless for medical reasons. With this said many breeds are different and it is always advisable to discuss things with a vet and then follow their advice on when a dog should be spayed or neutered.
As with other breeds some Welshies gain weight after they have been spayed or neutered and it's important to keep an eye on a dog's waistline just in case they do. If a dog starts to put on weight it's important to adjust their daily calorie intake and to up the amount of exercise they are given. Older dogs too are more prone to gaining weight and again it's essential they be fed and exercised accordingly because obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years. The reason being that it puts a lot of extra strain on a dog's internal organs including the heart which can prove fatal.
Some Welsh Springer Spaniels are prone to suffering from allergies and it's important for a dog to see a vet sooner rather than later if one flares up and this includes problems with their ears. Allergies can be notoriously hard to clear up and finding the triggers can be challenging. With this said a vet would be able to make a dog with an allergy more comfortable while they try to find out the triggers which could include the following:
All responsible Welsh Springer Spaniel breeders would ensure that their stud dogs are tested for known hereditary and congenital health issues known to affect the breed by using the following schemes:
Apart from the standard breeding restrictions in place for all Kennel Club registered breeds there are no other breed specific breeding restrictions for the Welsh Springer Spaniel.
It is mandatory for all Kennel Club Assured Breeders to use the following schemes and tests on stud dogs and all other breeders are strongly advised to follow suit:
The Kennel Club also strongly recommends that all breeders use the following scheme on their dogs:
As with any other breed Welshies need to be groomed on a regular basis to make sure their coats and skin are kept in top condition. They also need to be given regular daily exercise to ensure they remain fit and healthy. On top of this dogs need to be fed good quality food that meets all their nutritional needs throughout their lives.
It's best to pick a puppy up when people are going to be around for the first week or so which is the time needed for a puppy to settle in. Puppy-proofing the home and garden means putting away any tools and other implements that a boisterous puppy might injure themselves on. Electric wires and cables must be put out of their reach because puppies love chewing on things. Toxic plants should be removed from flowerbeds and the home too.
Puppies need to sleep a lot to grow and develop as they should which means setting up a quiet area that's not too out of the way means they can retreat to it when they want to nap and it's important not to disturb them when they are sleeping. It's also a good idea to keep "playtime" nice and calm inside the house and to have a more active "playtime" outside in the garden which means puppies quickly learn to be less boisterous when they are inside.
The documentation a breeder provides for a puppy must have all the details of their worming date and the product used as well as the information relating to their microchip. It is essential for puppies to be wormed again keeping to a schedule which is as follows:
There are certain items that new owners need to already have in the home prior to bringing a new puppy home. It's often a good idea to restrict how much space a puppy plays in more especially when you can't keep an eye on what they get up to bearing in mind that puppies are often quite boisterous which means investing in puppy gates or a large enough playpen that allows a puppy the room to express themselves while keeping them safe too. The items needed are therefore as follows:
All puppies are sensitive to noise including Welsh Springer Spaniel puppies bearing in mind that like many other spaniel breeds they can be ultra-sensitive by nature and stress out when people talk with raised voices. It's important to keep the noise levels down when a new puppy arrives in the home. TVs and music should not be played too loud which could end up stressing a small puppy out.
As previously mentioned Welshie puppies would have been given their first vaccinations by the breeders but they must have their follow up shots which is up to their new owners to organise. The vaccination schedule for puppies is as follows:
When it comes to boosters it's best to discuss these with a vet because there is a lot of debate about whether a dog really needs them after a certain time. However if a dog ever needed to go into kennels their vaccinations would need to be fully up to date.
Older Welshies need lots of special care because as they reach their golden years they are more at risk of developing certain health concerns. Physically a dog's muzzle may start to go grey but there will be other noticeable changes too which includes the following:
Older dogs change mentally too which means their response time tends to be slower as such they develop the following:
Living with a Welsh Springer Spaniel in their golden years means taking on a few more responsibilities but these are easily managed and should include taking a look at their diet the amount of exercise they are given how often their dog beds need changing and keeping an eye on the condition of their teeth.
Older Welsh Springer Spaniels need to be fed a good quality diet that meets their needs at this stage of their lives all the while keeping a close eye on a dog's weight. A rough feeding guide for older dogs is as follows bearing in mind they should be fed highly digestible food that does not contain any additives:
Older Welshies don't need to be given the same amount of daily exercise as a younger dog but they still need the right amount of physical activity to maintain muscle tone and to prevent a dog from putting on too much weight. All dogs need access to fresh clean water and this is especially true of older dogs when they reach their golden years because they are more at risk of developing kidney disorders.
The Welshie is high maintenance on the grooming front because their coats need to be brushed every day to prevent any knots and tangles from forming paying special attention to the feathers on a dog’s legs ears and under their bellies. Because Welshies love to swim it's important to dry off a dog's coat thoroughly once they are back home. The feathering on their ears tends to hang into a dog's feed bowl which means the tips need to be regularly washed after a Welshie has eaten to prevent any nasty build up which could lead to a nasty infection setting in.
Their coats also benefit from being professionally groomed several times a year which not only keeps things tidy but it makes it that much easier to keep a dog's coat in good condition in between visits to a grooming parlour. They shed throughout the year only more so during the Spring and then again in the Autumn when more frequent grooming is usually necessary to stay on top of things and to remove dead and shed hair from a dog's coat.
It's also important to check a dog's ears on a regular basis and to clean them when necessary. If too much wax builds up it can lead to a painful infection which can be hard to clear up. In short prevention is often easier than cure with ear infections.
The Welsh Springer Spaniel is a high energy intelligent dog and as such they need to be given the right amount of daily exercise and mental stimulation for them to be truly happy well-rounded dogs. They need at least 2 hours' exercise a day with as much off the lead time as possible but only in a safe environment. If they are not given the right amount of mental stimulation and exercise every day a Welshie would quickly get bored and could even begin to show some destructive behaviours around the home which is their way of relieving any stress they are feeling and not necessarily because they are being naughty.
A shorter walk in the morning would be fine but a longer more interesting one in the afternoon is a must with as much off the lead time as possible. These dogs also like to be able to roam around a back garden so they can really let off steam. However the fencing must be extremely secure to keep these active high-energy dogs in because if they find a weakness in the fence they will soon escape and could get into all sorts of trouble.
With this said Welshie puppies should not be over exercised because their joints and bones are still growing. This includes not letting a dog jump up and down from furniture or going up or down the stairs. Too much pressure placed on their joints and spines at an early age could result in a dog developing serious problems later in their lives.
If you get a Welshie puppy from a breeder they would give you a feeding schedule and it's important to stick to the same routine feeding the same puppy food to avoid any tummy upsets. You can change a puppy's diet but this needs to be done very gradually always making sure they don't develop any digestive upsets and if they do it's best to put them back on their original diet and to discuss things with the vet before attempting to change it again.
Older dogs are not known to be fussy eaters but this does not mean they can be given a lower quality diet. It's best to feed a mature dog twice a day once in the morning and then again in the evening making sure it's good quality food that meets all their nutritional requirements. It's also important that dogs be given the right amount of exercise so they burn off any excess calories or they might gain too much weight which can lead to all sorts of health issues. Obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years so it's important to keep an eye on their waistline from the word go.
Puppies need to be fed a highly nutritious good quality diet for them to develop and grow as they should. As a rough guide a Welshie puppy can be fed the following amounts every day making sure their meals are evenly spread out throughout the day and it's best to feed them 3 or 4 times a day:
Once a puppy is 12 months old they can be fed adult dog food.
Once fully mature an adult Welshie must be fed a good quality diet to ensure their continued good health. As a rough guide an adult Welsh Springer Spaniel can be fed the following amounts every day:
If you are looking to buy a Welsh Springer Spaniel you would need to pay anything from £350 to over £2000 for a well-bred pedigree puppy. The cost of insuring a male 3-year-old Welshie in northern England would be £23.13 a month for basic cover but for a lifetime policy this would set you back £43.32 a month (quote as January of 2018). When insurance companies calculate a pet's premium they factor in several things which includes where you live in the UK a dog's age and whether they have been neutered or spayed among other things.
When it comes to food costs you need to buy the best quality food whether wet or dry making sure it suits the different stages of a dog’s life. This would set you back between £40 - £50 a month. On top of this you need to factor in veterinary costs if you want to share your home with a Welshie and this includes their initial vaccinations their annual boosters the cost of neutering or spaying a dog when the time is right and their yearly health checks all of which quickly adds up to over £1000 a year.
As a rough guide the average cost to keep and care for a Welsh Springer Spaniel would be between £70 to £100 a month depending on the level of insurance cover you opt to buy for your dog but this does not include the initial cost of buying a well-bred healthy Kennel Club registered Welsh Springer Spaniel puppy.
When visiting and buying any puppy or dog there are many important things to consider and questions to ask of the breeder/seller. You can read our generic puppy/dog advice here which includes making sure you see the puppy with its mother and to verify that the dog has been wormed and microchipped.
Welsh Springer Spaniels are fast becoming a popular breed whether in the home or working environment both in the UK and elsewhere in the world which means that well-bred puppies command a lot of money. As such with Welsh Springer Spaniels there is specific advice questions and protocols to follow when buying a puppy which are as follows:
--------------------------------------------------
