A true sporting hound, the Whippet was bred for speed and is the fastest domesticated animal of its weight, capable of up to 60 kilometres per hour.
Today the Whippet is predominantly a much-loved gentle pet for all age groups. Not only is the Whippet a quiet, dignified, unobtrusive, creature of beauty and elegance in the household, with its agility and swiftness it also excels at catching rats and other vermin. But his true purpose in life is to be a loyal and devoted companion with the added bonus of being a wonderful living "hot water bottle" at the end of the bed. If you are working full time with no one home during the day your Whippet will become very lonely. They love you first and foremost but next to that they love each other's company. Consider taking on another Whippet if your dog is left alone a lot. Two Whippets don't take up much more room or eat much more than one. After all, it is well known they come in two's. We call them the "potato chip" dog; you can't stop at one.
The Whippet looks like a small Greyhound. It is graceful and slender, but actually quite hardy and very muscular. The fine dense coat comes in many colours. The muzzle is long and slender and the overall impression is one of streamlined elegance. The Whippet is basically built for speed and as they say, is able to turn on a "sixpence". This "miniature" Greyhound has small rose-shaped ears, bright oval eyes set towards the front of its head, an elegantly arched neck, a deep chest with plenty of heart room, and its back is long and broad and arched over the loin. The abdomen is retracted, and the tail is long and carried low but is also used a rudder when the Whippet is in action. The Whippet is a picture of "S's". No sharp corners, just lovely long flowing ‘S' curves.

The Whippet is the ultimate sprinter, unsurpassed by any other breed in its ability to accelerate to top speed and to twist and turn with matchless dexterity and although it may appear fragile, the Whippet's looks are deceiving. Tough would be a more accurate description, for the Whippet is still a strongly competitive breed that can take to the field at a moment's notice and handle the most rugged terrain with little effort. Far from being nervous, the Whippet instead shows an unusual cool and often aloof manner in most circumstances. In the home the Whippet stands out for its quietness with normal backyard vocalizing of the average dog, non-existent. Although if there is an unexpected intruder or anything else suspicious occurs it will let you know, but then let you deal with "it" and go back to lying on the couch.The Whippet is intelligent, lively, affectionate, sweet and docile, as well as a devoted companion. This breed should never be roughly trained as they are extremely sensitive both physically and mentally. Be sure to introduce plenty of variety when training this breed. The best results will be achieved by including games and running but remember, although they are very intelligent and will learn quickly, you may never achieve "perfect" obedience from this breed due to their independent nature.Whippets are good with children of all ages because they are not prone to snapping. But of course, as with any breed of dog, small children should not be left unattended at any time. Many whippets are enthusiastic greeters and when their owners return from long absences (of 10 minutes or more!) they may be greeted by wild displays of exuberance, so be careful if very young children are around as they may accidentally get knocked over. Whippets are really suited best to a calm quiet family and don't take kindly to too much rough and tumble. They will soon take themselves off to somewhere quieter if this occurs. Quiet and calm indoors, they are content to spend much of the day sleeping on the couch and they cope well with apartment living if they are sufficiently exercised twice a day if possible. Outside, particularly when they are racing or lure coursing, they demonstrate their superb athletic skills and will pursue their "quarry" (even when it is an artificial lure) with the heart of a lion. To see these dogs in full stride, undertaking the "double suspension gallop" is a breathtaking sight to behold!They are not generally aggressive with other animals, and although especially attached to their owners, they are usually friendly to visitors. They are not suited as guard dogs due to their trusting and unsuspicious nature but put to the test with their loyalty and devotion, the outcome may surprise you!
Unlike many other breeds, the males are as easy to housebreak, and no more aggressive than bitches. Both sexes make excellent pets. Males tend to be slightly more loyal and enjoy repetitive play. Females can be a little more complex, aloof and strong-willed, but are equally devoted to their owners. When viewing a litter go along with an open mind.
Given proper nutrition, exercise, and veterinary care, most Whippets live for 12 to 15 years. They are generally healthy, and are not prone to the frequent ear infections, skin allergies, or digestive problems that afflict other breeds. Whippets can become very easily over weight, which can put pressure on their back and limbs not to mention other associated health problems as well. People forget that a Whippet's stomach is very small if you compare it to the size of its body. The deep chest and long legs can be very deceiving. Whippets need to eat surprisingly little to keep them in good condition. A good indication for perfect "condition" is being able to see the three top vertebrae on the curve of the back and just slightly, the two hip bones. If you can't see vertebrae or rib at all, your Whippet is overweight.
This paragraph may surprise you, as up until now there were no "drawbacks". To the enthusiast, the following probably wouldn't even be considered drawbacks as such. Firstly trimming nails is a fact of life with Whippets. If you are squeamish about trimming nails regularly (at least once a month but preferable every two weeks) please be prepared to take your Whippet to a dog ‘beauty parlor' or Vet to have this done for you. A Whippet's body is not heavy enough to help wear the nails down with regular exercise even on concrete or asphalt. If you trim your puppy's nails regularly from a tiny baby, they soon become accustomed to this procedure and it will simply become a part of the regular grooming routine.Next, if you want a dog that is built like a "Labrador", consider another breed. Whippets should be streamline in every sense of the word. Remember that Whippets don't have a dense overcoat to keep them warm so they do feel the cold immensely. Simply rug them if they are exposed for any length of time to the cold. Preferably, a bed in front of the fire, or snuggled under your doona is a suitable alternative.
Lastly, Whippets LOVE companionship. A loyal and loving breed like this begs to be a part of your family. If you leave him outside in a lonely backyard he will simply look for a way to "escape" to try and find a better place to live.
Read more about the Whippet from the The Whippet Association of Victoria, Inc.
Whippets - A Brief History
Living with Whippets
Be the first to know about new articles, designs and images and products.
If you have forgotten your password, simply enter your email address below and press "Submit". We will email you  
				instructions on how to reset it.
--------------------------------------------------
Considering bringing a whippet into your family home and wanting to understand more about whippet characteristics? If so, we’ve got you covered.
In this post, we go through everything you need to know about the characteristics of whippets to ensure this is the right dog for you before you decide to bring one into your family.
Whippets have been called the “greyhounds that aren’t.” The whippet is a breed of sighthound that was developed in England for hunting hare and rabbit by coursing them down with speed rather than strength.
Whippets were crossbred from greyhounds and terriers to produce a smaller version of the original hunter.
This meant whippets are known for their speed, and they can run faster than 40 miles per hour! Whippets are the most cat-like dog breed (as strange as that sounds).
Whippet characteristics include being quiet so they do not scare or bother anyone with loud barks or whines, and whippets rarely bite even if an intruder was to come into your home.
Table of Contents
The word characteristics is defined by the Oxford Dictionary as a noun and it refers to a distinguishing feature or qualities of whippets.
Whippet characteristics are defined by whippets’ abilities, their physical/mental traits, and how whippets behave in different situations.
The whippet physical traits are whippets’ body structure and whippets’ hair type. They have a large chest as is seen with most sighthounds and a muscular body that aids them well in coursing and racing.
The whippet stands around 55cm tall and weighs around 6 – 8kg, making them a small and agile dog. Their eyes are almond-shaped and they have floppy ears that cover their pointed, whippet muzzle.
They have large muscular back legs which propel them forwards and lightning-fast speeds, making them excellent sprinters.
A whippet’s coat is one of their most distinctive characteristics. They are referred to as double-coated because whippets have a thick undercoat along with their outer coat.
The whippet’s hair grows straight and is short to medium in length, which is what makes whippets feel so smooth and silky to the touch.
Whippet coats come in colors from black, white, fawn, silver-blue to red. They shed seasonally and are not known for drooling or smelling bad.
Whippets do shed more than other dog breeds; whippet owners should be prepared with a good pet brush, clippers, and vacuum cleaner to manage their shedding.
The whippet mental traits are whippets’ intelligence, their energy level, whippets’ trainability, and whippets’ protectiveness of their owners. When it comes to intelligence, whippets are smart dogs.
They are able to learn many tricks quickly, such as “sit”, “stay” and “lie-down”. Whippets are eager-to-please dogs, and their characteristics make whippets very trainable.
Despite their small size, whippets are not yappy or whiny dogs, they rarely bark. In fact, I can count on one hand the number of times that I’ve personally heard my own whippet Bonnie bark.
They are very quiet dogs that do not bark unless it is necessary. Whippets are certainly not the perfect guard dogs, so don’t count on them to protect you from danger or an intruder.
However, they have a strong sense of loyalty to their family and owner.
When it comes to the whippet’s temperament, they are loving, social, and easygoing. Whippets are great family dogs for whoever wants a dog that is very gentle around children, especially if they have known the whippet since it was a puppy.
The whippet’s temperament makes them perfect for people with disabilities or allergies to fur because whippets do not shed like most other dogs and are very clean.
In addition, whippets are calm and not hyperactive, so they will be a good companion for any owner who wants a dog to spend time within the house.
However, whippets do require a lot of exercise if you want them to stay happy in the house because whippets need a lot of physical activity to keep them stress-free.
Mental stimulation is a must for whippets as well because whippets are extremely intelligent and need something to keep them occupied.
If whippets do not receive sufficient exercise or mental stimulation, they may become destructive and annoy whoever lives in the house.
Their temperament is unmatched, which is why they are my favourite dog breed on the planet. Whippets are known to be a very well-mannered dog breed.
They are extremely loyal and make for great companions. If whippets receive proper training from a young age, whippets can be incredibly obedient as well.
When it comes to the whippet’s personality, you should note that they can be quite greedy dogs.
They’ll stop at nothing to receive a sneaky treat and you may even find them with their muzzle lodged into your bag of Doritos whilst you binge-watch Netflix.
They can be shy dogs but once you get to know them they will become incredibly social and responsive.
Every whippet is slightly different and has unique personality traits.
Some whippets will be more dominant and controlling whereas others whippets may be more submissive, this is going to depend on the individual dog you have, so it’s important to look thoroughly into the parents before making a purchase decision.
Their small frames make almost every surface uncomfortable for them, so it’s vital that you invest in a comfortable, preferably memory foam dog bed for your whippet.
The amount of dog beds I’ve gone through with my whippets is astronomical as they will often rip them up trying to bunch the bed together to make it more comfortable.
The whippet is a very unique breed, and therefore they have some unique characteristics you should be aware of, First, whippets are not an aggressive breed.
Whippets can be easily startled and will oftentimes run away rather than fight. They are also very gentle dogs, whippets are one of the gentlest dog breeds you could own.
They love children and other pets; they make wonderful companions for anyone and everyone.
Whippets are also a very intelligent breed, they take to training easily and once they’ve learned something new, they never forget it.
These whippets make for wonderful watchdogs as well, whippets are more likely to bark at strangers or unknown sounds than attack them.
These dogs are incredibly athletic, and their body is built for fast sprints to keep up with small animals. They can make great companions for jogging or bike rides and will happily keep up with you without breaking a sweat.
However, as they get older they can become more susceptible to whippet arthritis or joint problems.
This is something you must look out for and treat accordingly.
They love to be in the outdoors and take long walks or hikes with their owners, if you’re a family of hikers then a whippet will fit in just fine.
The whippet has been a hunting breed for centuries, they were used for hunting rabbits, rats, and other small prey animals.
They are built for speed and make excellent dog trackers.
They will often chase small animals that they come into contact with on walks due to their strong prey drive; whippets can be incredibly difficult to train not to chase because if the whippet’s prey drive is strong it may prove very challenging for them to go against this and listen to your commands.
It’s important that your whippet is trained to a very high standard to keep their prey drive under control, especially if you live in a rural area where there may be lots of small animals for your whippet to chase.
Often people overlook a whippet’s prey drive and then find them challenging to train and manage, but this is deep-rooted into their instincts and something that proves difficult for many to keep under control.
As mentioned above, the prey drive in whippets is often very strong, which makes generally them not suitable for living with cats, rabbits, guinea pigs, and other small animals.
That’s not to say it’s impossible to introduce them together, but it’s not recommended as you’ll constantly be on your toes worrying in case something happens.
Whippets and cats living under the same roof is a particularly bad idea –because whippets think they’re fair game and because cats tend to be more agile and nimbler than whippets and can thus evade them.
This isn’t to say that whippets aren’t suitable for living with other dogs – in fact, whippets love the company of other whippets and dogs alike.
Although whippets aren’t the kind who appreciate being petted all day, they will enjoy your love and affection provided you take them out to get some exercise every day.
The energy whippets have only lasts for a few hours so it’s important that whippets get enough sleep at night to rejuvenate and be energised for the next day ahead.
Whippets make great pets for those that have overweight dogs too, as they’ll help get your larger dog back in shape by running rings around them and playing together.
As a whole, there are lots of whippet characteristics that whippets are known for. Whippets are loving, affectionate dogs that should be taken out to run around every day to stay healthy and happy.
If you’re looking for whippet puppies or whippet dog breeders, make sure you look at all aspects of the whippet before bringing it home because whippet characteristics vary from whippet to whippet.
All whippets will look similar in features and size with whippets weighing between 15-22kg and ranging in height from 53cm-61cms at the shoulder when they’re fully grown. They’ll be a long, lean dog that has short hair and a thin whippet tail.
Whippets are known for characteristics like loyalty, playfulness, and gentle affectionate whippet dog personalities. They’re incredibly smart dogs that are easy to train and will pick up tricks quickly without too much work.
Hopefully, this post has given you a good insight into the characteristics of a whippet and you now understand if this dog is right for you.
Thanks for taking the time to read this post and feel free to share it with someone who may find value in it.
Hello. I’m Luke- the founder of WhippetCentral. I’m somewhat of a whippet nut and have been for most of my life. In that time, I’ve owned and raised numerous whippets. Bonnie is my latest girl; she is currently eight years old and keeps me very busy! Understanding the need for whippet-specific content, I decided to create this blog to share what I have learned and to share my expertise regarding owning and raising whippets – the right way!
--------------------------------------------------
Pets
Knowledge hub
Support
The Whippet is the smaller relation of the Greyhound and was originally bred as a coursing hound. Over the years these slight elegant dogs have proved themselves to be extremely good at their job becoming a firm favourite with many people throughout the country and elsewhere in the world. Also known as the "Snap Dog" whippets are capable of running very fast with records of them reaching 56 km/h miles when in full flight which in short means they are superb racing dogs.
They are gentle characters by nature and are known to be one of the cleanest dogs around but with this comes the "hound" in them which in short means that a Whippet would feel the need to chase anything that moves. They thrive on human company and are highly adaptable being just at home in a country house or large castle as they would be living in a smaller house providing there is a very secure back garden for them to safely let off steam as often as possible. They are one of the most popular sporting-type dogs on the planet for these very reasons with Whippets being high on the list of favourite family pets and companions in the UK.
The actual origins of the Whippet are a little obscure although it is known that "whippet-type" hounds have been around and highly prized in Britain for centuries. In Medieval England large and small hounds were popular and it is thought that the smaller greyhound could well be the ancestor of the Whippets we know and love today.
Whippets became very popular by the 1900s both in Europe and the UK particularly in the Midlands as well as Northern England where they were bred to race and they were given their name from an old English word that meant "quickly moving little dog". They were highly prized by the mining community for their speed which saw these elegant hounds being raced right up until WWI a time when Whippet racing was a lot more popular than Greyhound racing in the UK.
It is thought the breed was developed by crossing several sporting racing and coursing breeds including the Greyhound. The Whippet Club was established in 1899 which was the first in the world to be founded and the oldest in the country today. They were recognised as a separate breed by the Kennel Club in the late nineteenth Century and today Whippets are just as popular both on the race track as working dogs and they are hugely popular as family pets and companions too. These elegant slight dogs also prove themselves to be very good at obedience and agility which they thoroughly enjoy taking part in because they thrive on the one-to-one attention they get when training.
Height at the withers: Males 47 - 52 cm Females 44 - 47 cm
Average weight: Males 9.1 - 19.1 kg Females 9.1 - 19.1 kg
Eyes are oval shaped with dogs always boasting a bright and expressive look in them. Their ears are rose shaped small and fine in texture. Whippets boast having a strong jaw with a perfect scissor bite where their upper teeth neatly overlap their lower ones. Their necks are long and well-muscled with dogs carrying them elegantly arched. Shoulders are well laid back with a moderate space between a dog's shoulder blades at their withers. Front legs are straight with dogs standing very upright.
Whippets have fine single coats and as such they need more protection against the elements in cold weather. In short they need to wear warm dog coats so they don't get cold. The accepted breed colours for Kennel Club registration are as follows:
When a Whippet moves they do so with a tremendous amount of free-moving action with long and easy strides covering a lot of ground while at the same time holding their topline. They throw their front legs forward low to the ground and their hind legs travel well under their bodies which gives Whippets a tremendous amount of power from their hindquarters. Their gait should never be high stepping or stilted and neither should it be mincing or short.
The Kennel Club frowns on any exaggerations or departures from the breed standard and the seriousness of the fault would be judged on how much it affects a Whippet's overall health and wellbeing as well as their ability to perform.
Male Whippets must have both testicles fully descended into their scrotums and it is worth noting that the size of a Whippet can be a little smaller or slight bigger as well as being a little taller or slightly shorter than stated in their Kennel Club breed standard which is to be used only as a guide for the breed.
The Whippet is a very loving and gentle dog in a home environment but they are "hounds" and therefore have a tremendously strong prey drive. In short if a Whippet spots something moving in the distance they will chase after it without a second thought. Back gardens must be ultra-secure to keep a Whippet safely in even when they are puppies.
As previously mentioned whippets thrive in a home environment and are just as happy to lie on a couch with the people they love after having been given a lot or vigorous exercise. They love being involved in everything that goes on around them which includes playing interactive games which they will happily join in. Whippets like all other sight hounds are sensitive sophisticated and independent characters all rolled into a very elegant and devoted companion and family pet.
Whippets are generally quiet and gentle dogs but can sometimes be nervy and shy if not well socialised from a young enough age or when they have not been given the best start in life. It cannot be stressed enough the importance of introducing Whippets to new situations lots of people and other animals so they grow up to be confident adult dogs. They are often wary of strangers and will bark if they feel they are being threatened in any way but rarely would a Whippet show any sort of aggressive behaviour preferring to keep their distance until they get to know someone.
They are active dogs and providing they are given enough vigorous daily exercise they are happy to turn into couch potatoes once they get home. However when out on a walk Whippets show a different side to their natures and should only be allowed off the lead in a safe and secure environment or they may just decide to take off after a small animal they spotted in the distance**.** With this said rarely would a Whippet not eventually come back to their owners.
A Whippet's training must start early paying special attention the "recall" command. Their education must be consistent and always fair because these slight dogs are sensitive by nature and do not respond well to any sort of harsh correction or heavier handed training methods. Whippets need to be handled with a gentle yet firm hand for them to respond well bearing in mind that many of these slight dogs can be quite highly strung.
With this said Whippets are a good choice for first time owners because in the right hands and with the correct amount of exercise and gentle training these charming elegant dogs become valued and devoted members of a family. Because they form such strong ties with their owners Whippets never like to be left on their own for any great length of time which in short means they are better suited to households where one person stays at home when everyone else is out or with people who work from home.
Whippets are a good choice for first time dog owners providing they have enough time to dedicate to training their canine companions because although intelligent Whippets are not as fast at learning new things. As previously mentioned they are better suited to homes where one person is usually around so they are never left on their own for too long.
Whippets were bred to course hunt and race which are traits that are deeply embedded in their psyche and they therefore have an extremely strong prey drive. A Whippet is never happier than when they get to chase something which is why they excel at so many canine sporting activities other than racing.
Whippets are playful by nature and enjoy it when they can join in any family fun and games. Care should always be taken to ensure that playtime never turns to boisterous especially if there are children in the household.
Whippets form strong bonds with their families and they are never happy when they find themselves on their own for any length of time which often sees them suffer from separation anxiety. The result is that many Whippets develop unwanted and destructive behaviours around the home which is their way of showing how stressed out they are at being left to their own devices.
Whippets are not known to be "barkers" thanks to the fact they are "silent" hunters. With this said any dog that's unhappy or which has been left on their own for too long would start barking incessantly which is their way of trying to get attention and to let the world know how stressed out they are.
Whippets like swimming and will happily take to the water when the weather is warm. Some dogs however don't like to get their feet wet and it would be a mistake to force them in because it would just end up frightening them even more. Anyone who shares a home with a Whippet that loves water should take great care when walking their dog off their lead anywhere near more dangerous watercourses just in case their canine companion decides to leap in.
Whippets are not natural watchdogs although they would always let an owner know when there are strangers about or when something they don't especially like is going on around them.
Whippets are clever dogs but they can be hard to train simply because they are not as "quick" to learn new things like other breeds. As such it takes a bit more time and a lot of patience on the part of an owner when it comes to training a Whippet to do new things. They do not respond well to any sort of harsh correction or heavy-handed treatment and need to be handled fairly and gently when they are being trained to achieve good results because like all sighthounds they are sensitive dogs by nature.
In the right hands and with the right sort of guidance Whippets can be trained to take part in obedience competitions and agility both of which are activities they thoroughly enjoy. The old adage of a "tired dog being a good dog" is never truer than when describing a well exercised and content Whippet once they get home.
Their education and training must start early paying a lot of attention to the "recall" command right from the word go. Other basic commands a Whippet puppy should be taught includes the following:
The Whippet is a great choice as a family pet because they are known to calm and gentle around children. However they are more suited to families where the children are older and therefore not the best choice for people with toddlers. Any interaction between the children and a dog should be supervised by an adult to make sure playtime does not get too rough or boisterous. Loud noises and raised voices tend to make Whippets quite nervous so best avoided.
Care should be taken when Whippets are around cats and other small animals because of their high prey drive although if they have grown up with a cat in the home they generally get on well together. It would be a mistake to trust a Whippet with and other small pets in a household just to be on the safe side though.
The average life expectancy of a Whippet is between 12 and 14 years when properly cared for and fed an appropriate good quality diet to suit their ages.
Like so many other breeds the Whippet is known to suffer from a few hereditary health issues which are worth knowing about if you are planning share your home with one of these active and good-looking dogs. The conditions that seem to affect the breed the most include the following:
Whippet puppies would have been given their first vaccinations before being rehomed it is then up to their owners to make sure they have their follow-up shots at the right time with the schedule being as follows:
There has been a lot of discussion about the need for dogs to have boosters. As such it's best to talk to a vet before making a final decision on whether a dog should continue to have annual vaccinations which are known as boosters.
Studies have now shown that female Whippets can be spayed when they are around 7 months to 1-year old when they are more physical mature although it is worth noting that many bitches don't have their first season until a little later. When it comes to neutering male Whippets there are many people who feel it is better for a dog to undergo the procedure once they have reached physical maturity which means they tend to develop more of a masculine look about them.
Some Whippets put on weight when they have been spayed or neutered which is why keeping an eye on a dog's waistline is essential and to adjust the amount of food and daily exercise they are given accordingly. As Whippets reach their golden years they are more likely to put on weight so it's important to rethink their calorie intake and to make sure they are being fed the right sort of diet to suit their ages.
Whippets are known to have sensitive skin and are therefore more prone to developing problems whether through an injury or because they have developed an allergenic reaction to something. If a dog shows any signs of having a skin issue a trip to the vet would be necessary sooner rather than later so a dog can be made to feel more comfortable as quickly as possible. Finding out what triggers an allergic reaction can prove challenging and takes time with the most common ones being as follows:
Currently there are no BVA/KC screening or DNA tests available for Whippets but prospective owners should discuss any health issues that are known to affect the breed with breeders before buying a puppy. With this said there are certain tests that reputable breeders would always undertake to do on their stud dogs as a way of continuing to produce healthy puppies and this includes the following:
Apart from the standard Breeding Restrictions in place for all Kennel Club registered breeds there are no additional breed specific breeding restrictions for the Whippet.
Currently there are no BVA/KC screening or DNA tests available under the Kennel Club Assured Breeder Scheme but potential owners should always ask breeders about any health issues that are known to affect Whippets before buying a puppy from them.
As with any other breed Whippets need to be groomed on a regular basis to make sure their coats and skin are kept in top condition with the good news being that Whippets are low maintenance on the grooming front. They also need to be given regular daily exercise to ensure they remain fit and healthy. On top of this dogs need to be fed good quality food that meets all their nutritional needs throughout their lives.
Whippet puppies are high energy even at a young age but it's essential they be well socialised from a young age by the breeder which is why it's so important to visit a breeder before buying a puppy from them. It's an exciting time bring a puppy home but it cannot be stressed strongly enough how well a home and garden needs to be puppy-proofed before introducing a Whippet puppy into the environment. This means ensuring the fencing is high enough and secure enough. To make sure there are no toxic plants growing in a garden and to put all garden tools and other implements away so that an energetic Whippet puppy does not injure themselves on them.
Electric wires and cables must be put out of harm's way because like all puppies Whippets like to chew and it would be fair to say they are often the worst compared to other breeds when it comes to gnawing on things they should not. It's also essential to set up a quiet area for a puppy to retreat to when they need to take a nap bearing in mind that puppies can sleep up to 21 hours a day which they must do for them to grow and develop as they should. This should not be too out of the way because a puppy needs to know there is someone around and that they are not totally on their own which could stress them out.
The documentation a breeder provides for a puppy must have all the details of their worming date and the product used as well as the information relating to their microchip. It is essential for puppies to be wormed again keeping to a schedule which is as follows:
Needless to say there are certain items that new owners need to already have in the home prior to bringing a new puppy home. It's often a good idea to restrict how much space a puppy plays in more especially when you can't keep an eye on what they get up to bearing in mind that puppies are often quite boisterous which means investing in puppy gates or a large enough playpen that allows a Whippet puppy the room to express themselves while keeping them safe too. The items needed are therefore as follows:
All puppies are sensitive to noise including Whippet puppies. It's important to keep the noise levels down when a new puppy arrives in the home. TVs and music should not be played too loud which could end up stressing a small puppy out.
As previously mentioned a Whippet puppy would have been given their first vaccination but this should be followed up with a second inoculation with the schedule being as follows:
When it comes to boosters it's best to discuss these with a vet because there is a lot of debate about whether a dog really needs them after a certain time. However if a dog ever needed to go into kennels their vaccinations would need to be
Older Whippets need lots of special care because as they reach their golden years they are more at risk of developing certain health concerns. Physically a Whippet will start to have a greying muzzle but there will be other noticeable changes too which includes the following:
Living with a Whippet in their golden years means taking on a few more responsibilities but these are easily managed and should include taking a look at their diet the amount of exercise they are given how often their dog beds need changing and keeping an eye on the condition of their teeth.
Older Whippets need to be fed a good quality diet that meets their needs at this stage of their lives all the while keeping a close eye on a dog's weight. A rough feeding guide for older Whippets is as follows bearing in mind they should be fed highly digestible food that does not contain any additives:
Older Whippets don't need the same amount of daily exercise as a younger dog but they still need the right amount of physical activity to maintain muscle tone and to prevent a dog from putting on too much weight. All dogs need access to fresh clean water and this is especially true of older dogs when they reach their golden years because they are more at risk of developing kidney disorders
Whippets are low maintenance when it comes to keeping their coats looking good. A weekly brush is all it takes to keep on top of things although a daily brush is a good idea to check for any injuries or wounds that could turn nasty if not caught in time more especially as Whippets have such thin skin. It's important to use softer brushes when grooming a Whippet because their skin is so delicate and sensitive.
It's also important to check a dog's ears on a regular basis and to clean them when necessary. If too much wax builds up in a dog's ears it can lead to a painful infection which can be hard to clear up. In short prevention is often easier than cure when it comes to ear infections.
The tools needed to keep a Whippet's coat looking good and their skin healthy are as follows:
Whippets are athletic dogs that need at least an hour's exercise a day and it should be something more than just a sedate walk in the park. A shorter walk in the morning is fine but they need a longer and more exciting walk in the afternoon to be truly happy and healthy dogs. Once a Whippet has been given enough exercise they are quite happy to relax and curl up in their beds.
Because they are so prone to injuries and fractures it's best not to let a Whippet run free over rougher ground bearing in mind that they are much happier and safer when they can let off steam on even ground. With this said young Whippet puppies should not be given too much exercise because their joints and bones are still growing and too much pressure on them could result in causing a dog a few problems later in their lives.
If you get a Whippet puppy from a breeder they would give you a feeding schedule and it's important to stick to the same routine feeding the same puppy food to avoid any tummy upsets. You can change a puppy's diet but this needs to be done very gradually always making sure they don't develop any digestive upsets and if they do it's best to put them back on their original diet and to discuss things with the vet before attempting to change it again.
Older dogs are not known to be fussy or finicky eaters but this does not mean you can feed them a lower quality diet. It's best to feed a mature Whippet twice a day once in the morning and then again in the evening making sure it's good quality food that meets all their nutritional requirements. It's also important that dogs be given the right amount of exercise so they burn off any excess calories or they might gain too much weight which can lead to all sorts of health issues. Obesity can shorten a dog's life by several years so it's important to keep an eye on their waistline from the word go.
Puppies need to be fed a highly nutritious good quality diet for them to develop and grow as they should. As a rough guide a Whippet puppy can be fed the following amounts every day making sure their meals are evenly spread out throughout the day and it's best to feed them 3 or 4 times a day:
Once fully mature an adult Whippet must be fed a good quality diet to ensure their continued good health. As a rough guide an adult Whippet can be fed the following amounts every day:
If you are looking to buy a Whippet you would need to pay anything from £500 to over £900 for a well-bred pedigree puppy.
The cost of insuring a male 3-year-old Whippet in northern England would be £23.73 a month for basic cover but for a lifetime policy this would set you back £45.05 a month (quote as of August 2017). When insurance companies calculate a pet's premium they factor in several things which includes where you live in the UK and a dog's age and whether they have been neutered or spayed.
When it comes to food costs you need to buy the best quality food whether wet or dry to feed your dog throughout their lives making sure it suits the different stages of their lives. This would set you back between £30 - £40 a month. On top of this you would need to factor in veterinary costs if you want to share your home with a Whippet and this includes their initial vaccinations their annual boosters the cost of neutering or spaying your dog when the time is right and their yearly health checks all of which quickly adds up to over a £800 a year.
As a rough guide the average cost to keep and care for a Whippet would be between £60 to £90 a month depending on the level of insurance cover you opt to buy for your dog but this does not include the initial cost of buying a well-bred pedigree puppy.
When visiting and buying any puppy or dog there are many important things to consider and questions to ask of the breeder/seller. You can read our generic puppy/dog advice here which includes making sure you see the puppy with its mother and to verify that the dog has been wormed and microchipped.
Whippets are an extremely popular breed both in the UK and elsewhere in the world which means that well-bred puppies command a lot of money. As such with Whippets there is specific advice questions and protocols to follow when buying a puppy which are as follows:
--------------------------------------------------
A breed standard is the guideline which describes the ideal characteristics, temperament, and appearance of a breed and ensures that the breed is fit for function with soundness essential. Breeders and judges should at all times be careful to avoid obvious conditions and exaggerations, as well as being mindful of features which could be detrimental in any way to the health, welfare or soundness of this breed.
--------------------------------------------------
The Whippet is a swift and graceful dog breed known for its speed in racing and gentle nature as a companion. Bred in England for coursing, they have a sleek coat, slender build, and strong inclination for chasing moving objects. Despite their racing prowess, they are content with moderate exercise and enjoy short bursts of play. Their friendly disposition makes them good family pets, and they usually get along well with children and other dogs. Simple brushing and occasional baths keep their coat in good condition.
While the Whippet can live in apartments, they need a lot of exercise to stay happy. With the instinct and thrill for the chase, these pups need to run! It’s also worth noting that Whippets don’t like being alone for long periods of time. If you’re looking for a watchdog, this might not be the breed for you as they don’t bark much. But hey, maybe that’s right up your alley! At the very least, it’s good news for your neighbors.
Although sometimes confused with the Italian Greyhound, the Whippet is medium in size rather than small. There is no such thing as a miniature Whippet dog, although we think that would be pretty cute! While the Whippet may slightly differentiate in size within the breed, they still qualify as a medium-sized dog breed. The Italian Greyhound would be very similar in appearance to a miniature Whippet dog, which might explain the confusion. Both breeds, like their cousin the Greyhound, are sighthounds. If it helps, think of the Whippet as a happy medium between the adorable Italian Greyhound and the elegant, larger Greyhound.
When considering a Whippet, it’s advisable to prioritize adopting from rescue organizations or shelters to provide a loving home to a dog in need. However, if you decide to purchase a Whippet puppy, it’s crucial to choose a reputable breeder. Conduct thorough research to ensure that the breeder follows ethical practices and prioritizes the well-being of their dogs. Reputable Whippet breeders prioritize the health and temperament of their dogs, conduct necessary health screenings, and provide a nurturing environment for the puppies. This active approach ensures that you bring home a healthy and happy pup while discouraging unethical breeding practices.

Looking for the best dog for your apartment? Contrary to popular belief, the suitability of dogs who adapt well to apartment living goes beyond its size. Apartment dwellers have a myriad of dog breeds to choose from as potential companions, with various factors to consider. Some large breeds can adapt well to apartment living and have lower activity levels. Others may require more space and possess higher energy levels. On the other hand, certain small dog breeds with abundant energy can still find contentment with indoor playtime or brisk walks.


However, when selecting a dog that adapts well to apartments, it is essential to prioritize your neighbors. Opting for a pet that doesn’t excessively bark and behaves politely when encountering others in shared spaces is crucial. In apartment settings, it’s worth noting that numerous small dogs may exhibit a propensity for high energy and frequent barking. This can make them less suitable for apartment living. Rather than size alone, you’ll want to think about breeds who are quiet, low-energy, and sociable towards other residents.




Regardless of your pup’s inherent suitability to apartment living, you will want to invest in additional training to help them be their best selves. Training dogs not inherently suited to apartment living requires extra patience and consistency. Start by establishing clear boundaries and rules within your apartment to create a structured routine for your dog. Focus on basic obedience commands such as “sit”, “stay”, “come”, and “leave it”. Barking-related training commands including “hush” or “quiet” are also crucial. This training is essential for managing your dog’s behavior both indoors and outdoors.


Since space may be limited, prioritize leash training to ensure your dog walks calmly and obediently, especially in communal areas. Crate training can also help your dog feel safe and secure while you’re away from your apartment. This may help your pup avoid anxiety, which could lead to barking habits.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

When considering adding a dog to your home, it’s important to acknowledge that some dog breeds may present less of a challenge in terms of training and temperament. These dogs tend to be more adaptable, responsive to training, and resilient, readily overcoming any training hiccups or inconsistencies. As one might expect, these breeds may be good for novice dog owners.


Conversely, certain dogs may pose greater difficulties, particularly for first-time owners. Factors such as heightened sensitivity, independence, energy levels, or assertiveness can contribute to a more demanding ownership experience. Novice dog owners should assess their level of experience and comfort when selecting a new pet, ensuring compatibility with their lifestyle and capabilities for a mutually rewarding relationship.






For first-time or novice dog owners, pet ownership can be both exciting and daunting. As a bit of advice, research breeds thoroughly before bringing a dog home. Each breed has their unique traits, energy levels, and care requirements. Consider factors such as size, exercise needs, grooming demands, and temperament to find a breed that aligns with your lifestyle and preferences.


Prioritizing training and socialization at an early age is essential. You may want a breed who is more easy to train or perhaps possesses a lower energy level. Establishing clear boundaries and expectations early on lays the foundation for a well-behaved and well-adjusted dog. Basic obedience training such as teaching commands like sit, stay, and come, is crucial for effective communication and building a strong bond with your new best friend. Additionally, exposing your dog to various environments, people, and other animals helps prevent behavioral issues and promotes confidence and adaptability. Consistent care, patience, and love are key ingredients for a fulfilling and rewarding relationship with your dog.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Sensitivity levels in dogs vary widely among breeds and individuals. This trait can be determined by how a dog responds to their environment. While some dogs remain unfazed by stern reprimands or surrounding stimuli, others are more sensitive. Even the slightest disapproving glance or the sound of a passing car can affect a sensitive dog. Dogs with a low sensitivity level, also known as “easygoing,” “tolerant,” “resilient,” or “thick-skinned,” are better equipped to handle a bustling household, assertive owners, and unpredictable routines. If you have young children, frequently host social gatherings, engage in noisy activities like playing in a band, or live a busy, unpredictable life, a low sensitivity level dog may be the ideal choice for you.


Highly sensitive dogs are wired differently, with research indicating that their brains process sensory input more deeply. Evolutionarily speaking, scientists theorize high sensitivity levels could aid in survival by functioning as an early warning system, alerting the pack imminent danger. Sensitivity in dogs also includes how they interact with humans and other animals. Some dogs are naturally more sensitive, quickly picking up on subtle cues and changes in their surroundings. Others are more resilient and are able to brush off minor disturbances. Factors such as genetics, early socialization, and life experiences can all contribute to a dog’s sensitivity levels. Highly sensitive dogs may react strongly to loud noises, sudden movements, or changes in routine, while less sensitive dogs may remain calm and composed in similar situations. Being “highly-sensitive” doesn’t always only mean “highly anxious”. Highly-sensitive dogs may also be more empathetic, more affectionate, or serve as better guardians.









Helping highly sensitive dogs involves creating a calm environment, establishing predictable routines, and using positive reinforcement training techniques. Gradually expose them to new experiences while providing mental stimulation and regular exercise to reduce anxiety and boredom. Monitor their diet and health, offering emotional support and reassurance to help them feel secure and valued.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds bond very closely with their family and are more prone to worry or even panic when left alone by their owner. An anxious dog can be very destructive–barking, whining, chewing, and otherwise causing mayhem. These breeds do best when a family member is home during the day or if you can take the dog to work. On the other hand, some breeds are instinctually more independent and easily tolerates being alone.


It’s essential to remember that individual dogs’ tolerance for being alone can vary greatly, depending on factors such as age, temperament, and training. Providing appropriate mental stimulation, toys, and a comfortable environment can help alleviate any potential distress when leaving these breeds alone.









When leaving your dog home alone, it’s essential to create a calm and comfortable environment for them. Even if your dog tolerates being alone, always make sure they have access to their favorite toys, bedding, and water. Consider leaving on soothing background noise, such as calming music or a white noise machine, to help drown out any outside sounds and provide a sense of security.


Before leaving, give your pup an energetic play session or walk to tire them out and alleviate any pent-up energy. Avoid making a big fuss when you leave or return to prevent reinforcing separation anxiety. Additionally, consider providing a special treat or puzzle toy to keep your dog occupied while you’re away, helping to distract them and make their alone time more enjoyable. You may also want to gradually increase the duration of your absences over time.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Several dog breeds are naturally equipped to tolerate cold weather and climates, thanks to their thick coats, sturdy builds, and unique adaptations. Some breeds from snowy climates and mountainous regions may immediately come to mind, like the Siberian Husky, Alaskan Malamute, and Bernese Mountain Dog. Renowned for their cold tolerance and ability to excel in snowy environments, these cold-weather breeds not only tolerate freezing temperatures but may be happiest in the chill. Thanks to dense double coats that provide excellent insulation against the cold, they have no trouble adapting when the temperatures drop.


Additionally, these dogs may have a higher body fat percentage have a built-in layer of insulation that helps retain body heat in cold weather. Physical attributes also play a role in cold tolerance, enabling dogs to navigate snowy or icy terrain with ease. Certain breeds may have specialized adaptations, such as furry feet for traction on slippery surfaces or water-resistant coats for protection against moisture and wind chill. Moreover, a dog’s natural instincts, such as seeking shelter or burrowing in the snow for warmth, can further enhance their ability to tolerate cold weather.










Click here for more information on this characteristic

Unlike cold-weather breeds and brachycephalic dogs, certain dog breeds are well-adapted to warmer climate and tolerate hot weather with relative ease. Breeds such as the Chihuahua, Dalmatian, and Basenji have short coats and lean body structures that facilitate heat dissipation, allowing them to stay comfortable in warmer weather. Their minimal fur reduces the risk of overheating, and their efficient panting mechanisms help regulate their body temperature effectively. These breeds often enjoy basking in the sun and participating in outdoor activities even during hot days, although owners should still ensure they have access to shade and water to prevent dehydration.


Moreover, some breeds have evolved in regions with hot climates, equipping them with natural adaptations to thrive in warm weather conditions. These breeds have developed unique features such as hairless or short coats, as well as physiological traits that aid in heat tolerance. Their ability to cope with high temperatures makes them suitable companions for owners living in warm climates, although proper care and attention to hydration and sun protection are still essential to ensure their well-being during hot weather.









Even if your dog tolerates hot weather, it’s still important to prioritize safety. You can check out guidelines on assessing if the weather is too hot for your dog. Ensure your dog always has access to fresh water, provide shaded areas in your yard or outdoor space, and schedule outdoor activities during cooler times of the day to prevent overheating. Never leave your dog in a parked car, monitor for signs of heat exhaustion, and protect their paws from hot pavement. Consider using pet-safe sunscreen on exposed skin areas and seek veterinary assistance if symptoms persist.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

When it comes to unconditional love and unwavering loyalty, few animals can rival the affectionate nature of dogs. These remarkable creatures have earned their reputation as man’s best friend, and it’s no wonder! Many breeds are particularly renowned for their love and devotion to their families. With their warm hearts and wagging tails, affectionate family dogs enrich the lives of their owners in countless ways.


While we like to think that all dogs are creatures of love, some breeds may be more outwardly affectionate than others. Some of this is due to temperament, breed group, and purpose. For example, dogs first bred for working or guarding independently of their human companions may show less affection than dogs specifically bred to be companion animals. Of course, this is no indication of the bond between a human and pup, but rather related to temperament and breed origin.


Affection may be demonstrated through a myriad of heartwarming behaviors. This may including tail-wagging greetings, cuddles on the couch, and an ever-present eagerness to be by their family’s side. This devotion extends to both adults and children, making dogs wonderful additions to family households. The warmth of a dog’s affection not only provides emotional support but also creates an environment of joy and connection within the family, fostering a sense of togetherness.




The affectionate nature of family dogs extends beyond play and cuddles. Dogs have a remarkable ability to sense their owner’s emotions, offering comfort and support during difficult times. Whether it’s a wagging tail after a long day at work or a sympathetic nuzzle during moments of sadness, they prove time and again that they are attuned to their family’s needs.


It is important to note that not all dogs of the same breed will be equally affectionate. Some dogs may be more independent or aloof, while others may be more clingy or demanding of attention. The best way to find out how affectionate a dog is is to meet them in person and interact with them.


See Dogs Less Affectionate with Family

Click here for more information on this characteristic

If you’re looking for a pup to join your household, you may first want to consider the most kid-friendly dog breeds. A gentle nature, patience, and the sturdiness to handle the heavy-handed pets and hugs children can dish out can be some of the most kid-friendly dog-defining traits. Of course, a pup with a blasé attitude toward running and screaming children would be a bonus.


At first glance, you may be surprised by the most kid-friendly dogs. Fierce-looking Boxers are considered good with children, as are American Staffordshire Terriers, an affectionate Pit Bull breed. Small, delicate, and potentially snappy dogs such as Chihuahuas aren’t always so family-friendly.


It’s important to note all dogs are individuals. Our ratings are generalizations, and they’re not a guarantee of how any breed or individual dog will behave. Dogs from any breed can be good with children based on their past experiences. Additionally, training plays a big role in how dogs will get along with kids. No matter what the breed or breed type, all dogs have strong jaws,  pointy teeth, and may bite under stressful circumstances or mishandling. Young children and dogs of any breed should always be supervised by an adult and never left alone without supervision.






Determining if a dog is kid-friendly involves assessing various aspects of their temperament, behavior, and breed characteristics. A kid-friendly dog should display a gentle and calm demeanor, showing an ability to handle the unpredictable behaviors and noises associated with children. Additionally, behavioral signals like wagging tails and a relaxed body language often indicates a positive interaction with kids.


Breed tendencies also play a role in gauging kid-friendliness. Some breeds are inherently more predisposed to be good with children. It’s essential to consider the dog’s personality, socialization history, and any signs of anxiety or discomfort. A well-socialized dog that has positive experiences with children is more likely to be kid-friendly, regardless of their breed. Conducting meet-and-greet sessions under controlled circumstances and observing the dog’s reactions to children’s actions can provide valuable insights into their suitability for family life.


See Dogs Who Are Not Kid Friendly

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Friendliness toward dogs and friendliness toward humans are two completely different things. Some dogs may intimidate other dogs, even if they’re love-bugs with people; others are naturally more dog friend and would rather play than fight. It’s important to note that breed isn’t the only factor when it comes to how dog-friendly your pup will be. Sure, some dogs breeds first bred for working independently may not immediately gravitate towards other dogs, but early socialization plays a lot more into how dogs will interact than their origin.  Dogs who lived with their littermates and mother until at least six to eight weeks of age or who spent lots of time playing with other dogs during puppyhood are more likely to have good canine social skills.


Still, some dog-friendly breeds are more pack-oriented and naturally thrive with other dogs. Dogs with this trait typically exhibit an innate ability to get along well with other pups. Dogs with this trait may be more eager to greet new dogs, display more social behavior at places like dog parks, or more confidently allow intimate sniffs from their canine acquaintances. This quality extends beyond mere tolerance and often manifests as a genuine enjoyment of the company of fellow canines, making these dogs ideal companions for those looking to build a multi-dog household. Additionally, they’ll pair well with pet parents hoping to take their pooch on social adventures, such as going to dog park or hanging out on dog-friendly patios.






While some dog breeds are more naturally inclined to make friends with other dogs, you may choose a puppy or adult dog that needs a little help. It’s may be common knowledge that there is a small window during a puppy’s early development when they are the most adaptable in terms of how they’ll interact with other dogs. You may, however, bring home an adult dog or a rescue and not get the opportunity. Not to fear! There are still many ways to help your pooch become dog-friendly.


Socialization is always the best way to ensure your dog becomes their most friendly self. You can help by exposing your pooch to as many sights, sounds, and environments as possible. Set up doggy playdates, enroll in dog training classes, or visit the dog park. Of course, be sure to do your research on dog training methods to ensure your dog will listen to you in social settings. Confidence is key!




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Stranger-friendly dogs will greet guests with wagging tails and nuzzles; others are shy, indifferent, or even reserved. However, no matter what the breed, a dog who was socialized and exposed to lots of different types, ages, sizes, and shapes of people as a puppy will respond better to strangers as an adult. Remember that even friendly dogs should stay on a good, strong leash in public.


However, it’s worth noting that certain breeds might initially appear more reserved or aloof when encountering new people. Some individuals appreciate this quality, as not everyone seeks a highly sociable canine companion. There is a preference for the calm and composed personalities exhibited by specific breeds. It’s essential to recognize that not all breeds necessarily need to be inherently friendly with strangers; however, it is crucial that your pup is not aggressive or reactive in such situations.






While some dog breeds are more naturally inclined to make friends with strangers, you may choose a puppy or adult dog that needs a little help. It’s may be common knowledge that there is a small window during a puppy’s early development when they are the most adaptable in terms of how they’ll interact with humans. You may, however, bring home an adult dog or a rescue and not get the opportunity. Not to fear! There are still many ways to help your pooch become stranger-friendly.


Socialization is always the best way to ensure your dog becomes their most friendly self. You can help by exposing your pooch to as many sights, sounds, and environments as possible. Set up doggy playdates, enroll in dog training classes, or visit the dog park. Of course, be sure to do your research on dog training methods to ensure your dog will listen to you in social settings. Confidence is key!




Click here for more information on this characteristic

When considering adding a pup into your home, you may want to consider the amount of shedding your furry companion will experience. Regardless of the dog breed, you will want to be prepared for at least some amount of pet hair on your clothing and around your house. Of course, this amount can vary greatly as shedding tendencies differ significantly among breeds. Some dogs shed continuously, especially dog breeds with heavy double-coats or long fur. Others undergo seasonal “blowouts” and some hardly shed at all.


Having a set of grooming tools at your disposal is essential for tending to your dog’s coat. Deshedding tools are excellent for eliminating excess hair that can become trapped in your dog’s fur. There are also brushes designed to gently remove dead hair without causing discomfort to your dog’s skin. Grooming gloves and bathing brushes can aid in loosening dead hair during shampooing, making it easier to brush away. Clippers and a detangling spray effectively tackle matted fur. Additionally, home tools for managing pet hair on fabric and furniture can make a big difference. Pet tape rollers, fur brooms, and specialized vacuums can eliminate pet hair from carpet, clothing, and even furniture.


If you’re someone who values a spotless environment, you might want to opt for a low-shedding breed. Otherwise, equip yourself with the right tools to fight the fur. Concerns about shedding shouldn’t prevent you from relishing your time at home with your dog. Establishing a consistent grooming regimen can significantly minimize the presence of loose hair in your living space and on your clothing. For additional guidance on managing dog shedding, explore our recommendations for addressing excessive shedding and designing your home with your pet (and their shedding tendencies) in mind.


Related:


How to Effectively Deal with Dog Shedding


4 Best Dog Brushes

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Often referred to as “heavy droolers,” some slobbery dog breeds are known for their drooling potential. This trait is more prevalent in certain breeds with loose, jowly skin. A few breeds that may come to mind when thinking about dog drool are Saint Bernards, Bloodhounds, and Mastiffs. Drooling is a natural behavior influenced by factors like genetics, breed characteristics, and individual anatomy. Even among breeds with a higher drooling potential, some dogs may drool very little while others may drool a lot.


While some dogs may only drool more during specific activities like eating or in anticipation of food, others may be consistent heavy droolers due to their inherent physiological makeup. Living with a dog that drools requires a degree of acceptance and proactive management. Pet owners of drooling breeds often keep absorbent towels or bandanas on hand to wipe away excess saliva. This may be particularly necessary after meals or playtime. Regular dental care can also contribute to reduce excessive drooling by addressing potential oral health issues. Despite the occasional mess, many pet owners of drooling dogs appreciate their unique charm.


Drool-prone dogs may drape ropes of slobber on your arm and leave big, wet spots on your clothes when they come over to say hello. If you’ve got a laid-back attitude toward slobber, fine; but if you’re not a fan of the extra slime, you may want to choose a dog who rates low in the drool department.






Owners with slobbery dog breeds should establish a baseline for their dog’s normal drooling levels. There may be instances where excessive drooling indicates an underlying issue rather than typical breed behavior. Excessive drooling in dogs can serve as an indicator of potential underlying issues. Various factors, such as stress, high temperatures, dental problems, allergic reactions, or nausea, may contribute to increased drooling. If your dog usually isn’t very slobbery or if additional concerning symptoms accompany sudden and pronounced drooling, it is advisable to consult with a veterinarian. Keeping track of what is typical for your dog allows you to quickly identify deviations from the norm and address potential health concerns or discomfort.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds are brush-and-go dogs; others require regular bathing, clipping, and other grooming just to stay clean and healthy. Easy-to-groom dogs are a smart choice for pet owners looking for a low-maintenance companion. Breeds with short coats or those that shed minimally often fall into the category of easy-to-groom dogs. Of course there are exceptions to this statement. For example, allergy-friendly, low-shedding Poodles or Poodle Mixes like the Labradoodle or Bernedoodle require frequent grooming. Low-maintenance dog breeds require less frequent brushing sessions. These pups may be more convenient for individuals with busy schedules or those looking for a hassle-free pet care routine.


Owners of low-maintenance dogs also enjoy the benefit of reduced grooming-related expenses. Because these breeds typically don’t require professional services, these low-maintenance breeds end up being more budget-friendly. Common examples of easy-to-groom breeds include Beagles, Labrador Retrievers, and Dachshunds. While regular grooming remains essential for all dogs, the easy-to-groom breeds offer a practical option for pet parents seeking a dog without the added demands of intricate care routines. Consider whether you have the time and patience for a dog who needs a lot of grooming. Alternatively, you may want to consider the budget required to pay someone else to do it.






Beyond the usual brushing, clipping, and trimming needs, some breeds require additional grooming for their unique needs. Breeds such as Pugs and Shar-Peis have loose skin and wrinkles that require extra vigilance during bathing.


First, to prevent grime and even bacteria from becoming a problem, clean between the folds of their skin with damp cotton and then dry well. Keeping these areas dry is also important after a bath or a walk in the rain. Long, droopy-eared pups like the Basset Hound or Cocker Spaniel must be checked weekly for buildups of wax and dirt. A cotton wad with a little water or mineral oil can help keep the ears clean and dry. Drops specifically designed to clean and dry the canal should also be applied for these ear infection-prone dogs. Hair that grows around the canal entrance should be kept trimmed. You can check with a professional groomer or veterinarian for instructions on how to properly and safely do this. Special tools may be available for this unique task.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

While most dogs experience good general health, some breeds may be prone to specific health issues. Conditions like hip dysplasia, cancer, or heart conditions can result from poor breeding practices or genetic dispositions. However, it’s important to note that not every dog of a particular breed will necessarily develop these diseases. Rather, they only face an elevated risk compared to other breeds.


When considering adding a dog or puppy to your home, it’s advisable to research the prevalent genetic illnesses associated with the breed you’re interested in adopting. Additionally, it can be beneficial to inquire whether your chosen shelter or rescue organization possesses information regarding the physical health of the potential pup’s parents and other relatives. This knowledge can aid in understanding potential health risks and ensuring the best possible start for your new furry family member.









The CHIC (Canine Health Information Center), a program created by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals (OFA), provides a centralized database for canine health information, particularly focusing on orthopedic and genetic conditions. Despite robust general health, they recommend several health screenings for breeds due to potential predispositions to certain conditions. After screening, the CHIC assigns a number to a dog’s test results. It doesn’t indicate normal results, just that all necessary tests were done and results made available. A CHIC report accompanies the number, detailing the tests, the dog’s age during testing, and the results.


The CHIC program adjusts its requirements based on evolving breed health concerns. Existing CHIC numbers aren’t affected if requirements change. This number is also displayed on AKC documents, including Certified Pedigrees, Registration Applications, and Registration Certificates. This record signifies to potential puppy parents and breed enthusiasts that recommended tests have been completed. Although the CHIC database only includes purebred dogs, you can look up a hybrid breed’s parent breeds for potential health considerations.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Certain dog breeds have a predisposition towards hearty appetites. As a result, they may also be prone to weight gain, similar to humans. Just like in people, obesity in dogs can lead to various health issues. If you opt for a breed prone to packing on pounds, it’s essential to implement strategies to manage their weight effectively. This includes limiting treats, ensuring they receive sufficient exercise, and regulating their daily food intake by serving measured meals instead of leaving food accessible all day.


Consulting with your veterinarian about your dog’s diet is crucial. They can provide valuable insights and recommendations tailored to your pet’s specific needs to help maintain a healthy weight. Weight gain not only poses direct health risks but can also exacerbate existing conditions such as arthritis, leading to further complications if left unchecked. Thus, proactive management of your dog’s weight is integral to their overall well-being and longevity.






To help your dog manage weight gain, start by consulting with your veterinarian to develop a safe and effective weight loss plan tailored to your pet’s individual needs. This may involve adjusting their diet to a lower calorie option or a specialized weight management formula. It may also include measuring their food portions to control calorie intake, and reducing the frequency of treats. Additionally, increasing their physical activity through regular exercise is essential for burning calories and promoting weight loss.


Identifying whether your dog is overweight involves assessing their body condition and observing for signs of excess weight. You can perform a simple visual and tactile evaluation by feeling their ribs and observing their waistline. In a healthy weight dog, you should be able to feel their ribs easily with a slight covering of fat. They should have a noticeable waist when viewed from above. If your dog is overweight, you may observe visible signs such as a lack of a defined waist, a rounded or bulging abdomen, difficulty moving or breathing, or reduced energy levels.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Get ready to meet the giants of the doggy world! Large dog breeds aren’t just big balls of fluff, they’re like loving, oversized teddy bears on a mission to steal your heart. Need some convincing? Let’s dive into the awesome benefits of owning one!


First things first, these pooches are a living security system! With their impressive size and thunderous barks, they’ll have any would-be intruder running for the hills. Talk about peace of mind! Plus, who needs an alarm when you’ve got a furry giant protecting your castle?


But that’s not all. Large dog breeds are all about loyalty and devotion. They’ll stick by your side through thick and thin, becoming your most dedicated bestie. Their love knows no bounds! When you have a giant fluffball showing you unconditional love, you’ll feel like the luckiest human on the planet.


Now, let’s talk about their talents. These big fellas are the ultimate working partners. With brains and brawn, they’re up for any challenge. From search and rescue missions to lending a helping paw to those in need, these dogs are superheroes in fur coats. They’ll make you proud every step of the way!


Don’t let their size fool you—these gentle giants have hearts as big as their paws. They’re incredible with kids and other pets, spreading their love like confetti. Their patience and kindness make them perfect family pets, ensuring harmony in your household.


Oh, and get ready to break a sweat! These dogs are fitness enthusiasts, and they’ll keep you on your toes. Daily walks, jogs, and play sessions will not only keep them happy and healthy but will also give you a reason to ditch the couch and join in on the fun. It’s a win-win situation!


So, if you’re ready for a dose of big love, go ahead and consider a large dog breed. They’re the best wing-dog you could ever ask for, ready to make your life a thousand times more exciting, loving, and downright awesome! Get ready for the big adventure of a lifetime!






Click here for more information on this characteristic

Easy-to-train dogs have an innate ability to quickly understand the relationships between prompts, actions, and rewards. For example, when told to “sit,” easy-to-train dogs quickly associate the command with the action of sitting, knowing that compliance results in a positive outcome, such as receiving a treat. This ability to learn quickly makes training easier and more enjoyable for both the dog and the owner. On the contrary, some dogs may need more time, patience, and consistent repetition to form these associations, emphasizing the importance of tailoring training methods to individual learning styles.


It’s crucial to keep in mind that dogs that present challenges aren’t necessarily less intelligent; rather, they may exhibit a more independent nature shaped by their breeding history. Breeds like Livestock Guardian Dogs, for instance, developed an inherent independence due to their historical role in guarding flocks without constant human supervision. This independent spirit, while a unique and valuable trait, can pose challenges when it comes to imparting basic commands. Having been bred to think and act autonomously, they may require a bit more patience and understanding from their owners.






Training is essential to keep your dog safe in various situations, whether it’s staying within the yard or maintaining control during emergencies. The mental exercise from training helps keep your dog sharp, burn off excess energy, and minimize undesirable behaviors. Consistency and patience are key; reward your dog when they get it right. As the adage says, you can always teach an old dog new tricks.


No matter what you’re trying to teach your dog, from housetraining to “heel,” there are a few basic guidelines that can help make the process easier. Be sure to check out our feature on several of the most popular dog training methods. We also have articles on the basics of leash training for your pups. If you’ve got the basics covered and are looking for a few extra tricks, check out 10 Fun, Impressive Tricks You Can Teach Any Dog.


Related:


Dogs Who Are Challenging To Train

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs exhibit a remarkable spectrum of intelligence, encompassing a wide array of cognitive abilities and problem-solving skills. From the astute problem-solving abilities of breeds like Border Collies to the keen observational skills of German Shepherds, canine intelligence manifests in various forms. Some dogs excel in tasks requiring social intelligence, such as understanding human emotions and cues. Other may showcase exceptional learning capacity in their ability to master complex commands and tasks. Additionally, certain breeds demonstrate remarkable memory retention and the ability to adapt to new situations swiftly. However, it’s essential to recognize that intelligence in dogs is diverse and multifaceted. Intelligence is influenced not only by genetics, but also by individual experiences and environmental factors.


Dogs bred for tasks requiring decision-making, intelligence, and focus, such as herding livestock, require mental stimulation akin to how dogs bred for endurance need physical exercise. Lacking such mental engagement, they may resort to activities like digging or chewing to occupy themselves. It’s worth noting that while intelligence is valued, it doesn’t always correlate with trainability, especially in breeds bred for independent thinking. Hello, Livestock Guardians! Incorporating obedience training, interactive toys, and engaging activities like dog sports or careers such as agility and search and rescue can provide the mental challenge these dogs crave.









Keeping your dog mentally stimulated is crucial for their well-being. One way to do this is through interactive play and toys. Treat-dispensing toys or puzzles that require problem-solving can keep your dog entertained and mentally engaged. Regularly rotating toys can also prevent boredom. Additionally, incorporating training sessions into your daily routine provides mental stimulation while strengthening your bond with your dog. Teaching new tricks or practicing obedience commands challenges their mind and keeps them sharp.


Another way to stimulate your dog mentally is through enrichment activities. This includes activities that engage their senses, such as hide-and-seek games using treats or scent trails. Taking your dog on different walking routes or exploring new environments introduces novelty and mental stimulation. Additionally, providing opportunities for social interaction with other dogs through playdates or visits to dog parks can stimulate their minds through socialization. Regularly changing up their environment and offering new experiences helps prevent monotony and keeps your dog mentally sharp and happy.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Mouthiness, a tendency to nip, chew, and playfully bite, is a common behavior in puppies across many dog breeds. For some breeds, the tendency persists into adulthood, particularly with sporting and herding breeds. Because of this inherent instinct in many breeds, mouthy dogs are more inclined to use their mouths to hold or “herd” their human family members. Of course, this isn’t always appreciated! They require training to learn that chewing on toys is acceptable, but not on people. Breeds with a higher potential for mouthiness often greatly enjoy interactive games like fetch, as well as chewing on toys stuffed with kibble and treats.




Puppy mouthing and nipping may seem cute initially, but it can develop into an unwanted habit as the dog matures, especially in breeds with a potential for mouthiness. It’s important to understand that in the early stages of a puppy’s development, biting and mouthing is one of the ways they begin to explore and understand their environment. These aren’t true bites, but rather the puppy using their mouth to sense and interact with its surroundings. Even so, it’s a good idea to teach your dog commands like “drop it” or “let go” from a young age. This will help curb the mouthing behavior before it becomes an entrenched problem in adulthood.






The best way to train your dog out of mouthiness is to teach them how to play with a gentle mouth. Whenever your dog puts their mouth on your skin, make a high-pitched yelp or squeal. This teaches them that biting hurts. As they learn that their bite causes discomfort, they’ll start to use less pressure. It’s crucial to help your dog understand that they may accidentally apply too much force, resulting in a painful bite. You’ll need to consistently use this technique until your dog only applies the lightest pressure, using just their gums, when engaging in playful mouthing behaviors.


The key is to show your dog that hard bites are unacceptable, so they learn to play more gently with a soft mouth. The yelping response reinforces this lesson over time, allowing your dog to develop more control and gentleness when playing with their mouth.CopyRetry

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs with a high prey drive have an instinctive desire to stalk, capture, and prey upon potential food sources. Dogs who were bred to hunt, such as Terriers, have an inborn desire to chase — and sometimes kill — other animals. Anything whizzing by — such as cats, squirrels, and perhaps even cars — can trigger that instinct.




Off-leash adventures are too great a temptation for pups who will wander and hunt. Dogs who like to chase need to be leashed. And, even on a leash, you may experience your dog pulling on the leash to reach rodents or birds in their sight. Otherwise, these pups should be kept in a fenced area when outdoors. If your pup has a high prey drive, you’ll need a high, secure fence in your yard.


These breeds generally aren’t a good fit for homes with smaller pets that can look like prey, such as cats, hamsters, or small dogs. Breeds that were originally used for bird hunting, on the other hand, generally won’t chase, but you’ll probably have a hard time getting their attention when there are birds flying by.




Observing your dog’s prey drive, which is instinctual and biologically-rooted, is not the same as observing aggression. Much aggression is born of fear and anxiety, especially in the case of dog aggression toward humans.


The tendency to wander, even into oncoming traffic, can produce diasterious results for pups with predatory instincts. It can also lead to pups being bitten by snakes or attacked by other wild animals they may pursue while on the hunt.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Some breeds sound off more often than others. When choosing a breed, think about how often the dog vocalizes. Learn more about breeds with a tendency to bark or howl.


If you’re considering a hound, would you find their trademark howls musical or maddening? If you’re considering a watchdog, will a city full of suspicious “strangers” put your pup on permanent alert? Will the local wildlife literally drive your dog wild? Do you live in housing with noise restrictions? Do you have neighbors nearby who may not be thrilled about the booming barks? Then you may wish to choose a quieter dog.









Training a dog with a tendency to bark or howl excessively requires patience, consistency, and positive reinforcement techniques. Begin by identifying the triggers that prompt your dog to bark, whether it’s the doorbell, passing cars, or other animals. Once you understand the underlying causes, work on desensitizing your dog to these stimuli through gradual exposure and counterconditioning. For example, if your dog barks at the doorbell, practice ringing the bell repeatedly at a low volume while rewarding calm behavior with treats or praise. Gradually increase the intensity of the stimulus while continuing to reward quiet responses, reinforcing the idea that remaining quiet brings positive rewards.


In addition to desensitization exercises, teach your dog an alternative behavior to replace barking, such as “quiet” or “speak.” Use these commands in training sessions to encourage your dog to bark on cue and then stop when prompted. Consistency is crucial, so ensure everyone in the household is on board with the training plan and reinforces the desired behavior consistently. Finally, provide mental and physical stimulation through regular exercise and interactive toys to help alleviate boredom and reduce the likelihood of excessive barking.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Dogs possess a natural inclination for exploration and adventure, often displaying wanderlust tendencies that stem from their ancestral instincts. With their keen sense of smell and curiosity, dogs are drawn to new scents, sights, and experiences. As a result, they may be inherently prone to wander off if given the opportunity. This wanderlust potential varies across breeds, with some exhibiting stronger instincts for exploration than others. Breeds such as the Siberian Husky, Beagle, and Australian Shepherd are known for their independent spirits and high energy levels. They may be more likely to wander off in search of excitement or stimulation. However, even breeds typically considered more docile may still succumb to wanderlust if not properly trained or supervised.






To mitigate the risk of dogs wandering away, responsible pet ownership involves implementing preventative measures and training techniques. Providing adequate physical and mental stimulation through regular exercise, interactive play, and enrichment activities can help satisfy a dog’s innate desire for exploration and reduce the likelihood of wandering behavior. Having a general awareness of the “escape artist” tendencies in certain breeds can help you in ensuring the safety of your pup. Additionally, training commands such as recall and leash manners are essential for establishing boundaries and ensuring that dogs remain under control when outdoors. Investing in secure fencing for outdoor spaces and using identification tags or microchips can also provide added security and peace of mind in case of accidental escapes.




Click here for more information on this characteristic

Energetic dogs, bred for specific tasks such as retrieving for hunters or herding livestock, are always ready for action and have enough stamina to work a full day. Additionally, active dogs with high energy levels necessitate a significant amount of physical and mental activity. These dogs enjoy jumping, playing, and discovering new sights and smells. Owners of high-energy breeds must provide outlets for their dogs’ physical and mental needs to keep them healthy and happy.


Low-energy dogs, on the other hand, are the canine equivalent of a couch potato, content to spend their days sleeping. When choosing a dog breed, you should consider your activity level and the energy level of your potential companion. Determine whether you would find certain dogs’ lively and energetic personalities invigorating or potentially overwhelming. Understanding a breed’s energy requirements is critical for ensuring a harmonious match between the dog’s needs and the owner’s preferences, resulting in a satisfying and balanced companionship.






Exercise requirements for high-energy dogs can vary even within the same breed. It’s also important to note that age doesn’t exempt senior dogs from exercise; they simply require shorter walks compared to their younger years. For energetic dogs, a leashed stroll around the block won’t be enough. The goal is to ensure that your dog is sufficiently tired and content by the time the exercise session concludes.


To meet the exercise needs of active breeds, it’s recommended to provide at least 30 minutes of vigorous aerobic exercise most days. This applies not only to larger breeds but also to smaller ones. Some toy breeds are prone to obesity and may need more activity than one might assume. Safety is paramount, so during extreme weather conditions, it’s advisable to stay indoors and engage your dog’s mind through activities like trick training, interactive play with toys, or running up and down stairs together. A well-rounded exercise routine involves activities that challenge both mental and physical muscles, such as exploring new hiking trails. Check out our guide on the Top 10 Ways to Exercise With Your Dog.








Click here for more information on this characteristic

A dog with high intensity exudes boundless energy and enthusiasm in everything they do, whether it’s pulling on the leash, tackling obstacles with gusto, or devouring meals with voracious appetite. While their exuberance can be endearing, it also necessitates consistent training to instill good manners. However, not everyone will appreciate their high energy levels. Some high intensity dogs may not pair well to households with young children or individuals who are elderly or frail, as their exuberance could inadvertently pose a risk.


In contrast, a low-intensity dog approaches life with a more relaxed and subdued demeanor. These dogs typically exhibit a calmer disposition, preferring leisurely strolls and gentle interactions over exuberant displays of energy. Their tranquil nature often makes them ideal companions for those seeking a more laid-back canine companion. This may be particularly true in homes where a quieter atmosphere is preferred.









Training and exercise are crucial for dogs with high-intensity personalities to manage their energy effectively. Consistent training using positive reinforcement techniques helps instill good manners and impulse control. Engaging them in mentally stimulating activities, alongside regular physical exercise like agility or fetch, is essential to prevent boredom-driven behaviors and promote overall well-being. Variety in their exercise routine, such as exploring new trails or participating in dog sports, ensures both physical and mental stimulation for a balanced and fulfilling life.

Click here for more information on this characteristic

Different dog breeds have varying exercise needs, and understanding these requirements is crucial for ensuring a happy and healthy canine companion. Some breeds are content with a leisurely evening stroll around the block, while others demand daily, vigorous exercise routines, particularly those originally bred for physically demanding tasks like herding or hunting. Without sufficient physical activity, these high-energy breeds may face issues such as weight gain and express their pent-up energy in undesirable behaviors like excessive barking, chewing, and digging.


We often think of exercise only as a health issue, but it has significant day-to-day effects on a dog’s behavior as well. Dogs — particularly puppies and young dogs — have a lot of energy, and if they don’t get the chance to burn it off, destructive behavior is often the result. If you’re annoyed at your dog’s digging, have headaches from barking, and need to replace pillows shredded into expensive fluff, your dog is probably not getting enough exercise.






Generally speaking, a leashed walk around the block isn’t going to cut it. Most dogs need 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity a day. Your canine pal needs enough that they’re slowed down by the time you stop.


Some general guidelines for getting your dog enough exercise:















Click here for more information on this characteristic

Understanding your dog’s temperament is crucial when considering their exercise and play needs. Some dogs have a high potential for playfulness, constantly seeking out games and activities to engage in. These playful pups can be endearing, but it’s essential to consider how much time and energy you have to dedicate to play each day. Think about whether you’re prepared for multiple rounds of fetch or tag and if you have other family members, kids, or even other dogs who can serve as playmates for your furry friend.


On the other hand, some dogs are more serious by nature. While they may still enjoy playtime, it might not be as frequent or vigorous as with their more playful counterparts. Understanding your dog’s individual temperament helps you tailor their exercise routine to suit their needs and preferences. It’s about finding the right balance between providing enough mental and physical stimulation without overwhelming them or neglecting their need for relaxation and downtime.









Playing with our pups is good for us. Seriously, science says so! To make the most of spending time with breeds with a high potential for playfulness, consider incorporating a variety of interactive games and toys to keep them mentally stimulated and physically active. Engage in activities such as fetch, tug-of-war, or hide-and-seek, which tap into their natural instincts and provide both mental and physical exercise. Use positive reinforcement, such as treats and praise, to encourage good behavior and reinforce the bond between you. Remember to be patient and flexible, allowing your dog to lead the play session and adapt to their preferences. Finally, ensure a safe environment by removing any potential hazards and supervising closely, especially when introducing new toys or activities.

Click here for more information on this characteristic
Nicknamed the “poor man’s Greyhound,” the elegant yet powerful Whippet was probably created some time in the late 18th century for use by poachers in search of rabbits and other small game, as well as in “snap” contests, in which the goal was for the dog to snap up rabbits in a circle. They really came into their own, however, when it was discovered that they would chase a waving rag, and Whippet racing became popular among working class men.
This medium-size hound has a short, dense coat in a variety of colors and markings covering a streamlined body. The Whippet is not a miniature Greyhound but was developed by crossing Greyhounds with smaller Terriers and, later, Italian Greyhounds. The result was a sleek and beautiful dog who’s gentle and affectionate. The Whippet is often called the perfect all-purpose dog and is a keen competitor in agility, flyball, and lure coursing. Although they’re known for their independent temperament, which can make obedience training challenging, plenty of Whippets compete successfully in obedience trials.
The Whippet usually gets along with other dogs and people, although early socialization — exposure to different people, sights, sounds, and situations — is necessary to keep your Whippet from becoming fearful of new situations. If you’re fond of cats, however, the Whippet may not be the best choice. This breed has a strong prey drive. Although some Whippets can live peacefully with cats and other small furry pets, there have been cases of Whippets killing family cats. You may be able to train and socialize your Whippet to accept the family cat, but it’s important to always supervise their interactions and never leave them alone together. That same prey drive that makes Whippets unsuitable to homes with cats makes them unsuitable to walks off leash. They will give chase if they see something worth chasing, and even a well-trained Whippet will disregard commands to come. Some have pursued prey for miles.
Whippets enjoy daily walks, and an opportunity to run in a fenced yard or other confined area is always appreciated. An underground electronic fence is not sufficient to keep them contained; they’ll ignore the shock it gives in favor of going after any moving object. In the home, they’re gentle and undemanding, asking only to enjoy your company. With children they’re playful and mischievous. Their thin coats and affectionate nature make them unsuited to living outdoors. Whippets will snuggle with you on the sofa and warm your feet in bed at the end of an active day.
The Whippet is a fairly modern breed, not much more than a couple of hundred years old. They were developed in Northern England, specifically Lancashire and Yorkshire, probably during the late 1700s, by crossing Greyhounds with fast, long-legged Terriers. The result was a small, swift dog frequently used by poachers to hunt rabbits and other small game on local estates.
England’s Kennel Club recognized the Whippet as a breed in 1891. The first Whippet to be registered with the American Kennel Club was a dog named Jack Dempsey, in 1888. Today the Whippet continues to inspire admiration for his stylish look, versatility, and devoted companionship. He’s ranked 60th among the 155 breeds and varieties recognized by the AKC.
A male Whippet is 19 to 22 inches tall at the shoulder; females are 18 to 21 inches. Their weight ranges from 18 to 48 pounds, with females being smaller. Males average 34 pounds, females 29 pounds.
Amiable, friendly, quiet, and gentle at home, the Whippet is intense in the chase. He requires a leash or a fenced yard to prevent him from taking off after any moving object, be it a bunny or a radio-controlled car. He doesn’t bark much, but he’s alert and makes an excellent watchdog. Guard dog? Not so much. He’ll happily show the burglar to the silver.
Temperament is affected by a number of factors, including heredity, training, and socialization. Whippet puppies with nice temperaments are curious and playful, willing to approach people and be held by them. Choose the middle-of-the-road puppy, not the one who’s beating up his littermates or the one who’s hiding in the corner. Always meet at least one of the parents — usually the mother is the one who’s available — to ensure that they have temperaments that you’re comfortable with. Meeting siblings or other relatives of the parents is also helpful for evaluating what a puppy will be like when he grows up.
Whippet puppies need early socialization — exposure to many different people, sights, sounds, and experiences — when they’re young. Socialization helps ensure that your Whippet puppy grows up to be a well-rounded dog. Enrolling him in a puppy kindergarten class is a great start. Inviting visitors over regularly, and taking him to busy parks, stores that allow dogs, and on leisurely strolls to meet neighbors will also help him polish his social skills.
The Whippet is a generally healthy breed, and buying from a responsible breeder will help ensure that you get the healthiest Whippet possible. A puppy from a reputable Whippet breeder will be vaccinated and dewormed before you take him home. Responsible breeders use only physically sound, mature (at least 2 years or older) dogs, and test their breeding stock for genetic diseases pertinent to the breed. Both parents should have health clearances, documentation that a dog has been tested for and cleared of a particular condition. In Whippets, you should expect to see health clearances from the Canine Eye Registry Foundation (CERF) certifying that eyes are normal. Health clearances are not issued to dogs younger than 2 years of age. That’s because some health problems don’t appear until a dog reaches full maturity. For this reason, it’s often recommended that dogs not be bred until they are two or three years old. The following conditions may affect Whippets:
Most important to a Whippet’s comfort is a nice, soft bed to cushion his body as well as access to your sofa and bed so he can cuddle with you. For cold-weather walks, he’ll need a sweater or coat to help him stay warm. He can’t tolerate being outdoors in the cold for long periods.
A 5- to 6-foot fence will safely contain your Whippet in his yard. An underground electronic fence won’t. Your Whippet will readily ignore any shock in favor of giving chase. Give your Whippet a couple of 20- to 30-minute walks on leash daily. As often as possible, he’ll love the chance to run off leash in a fenced yard or park, but don’t be surprised if his burst of energy lasts only a few minutes. Be careful not to exercise your Whippet puppy too heavily. It’s important to avoid any strain on their joints or system. The general rule is five minutes for every month of age; in other words, a 5-month-old puppy should receive no more than 25 minutes of exercise per day.
Whippet puppies are easily house trained, and using a crate will help. A crate is your Whippet’s safe place, and he won’t want to soil it. Putting him in it when you can’t watch him will ensure that he doesn’t have an accident in the house or chew up something he shouldn’t. A crate keeps him safe and both of you happy. Train your Whippet with praise, patience, and positive reinforcement. Whippets are smart and willing, but they also have a mind of their own. Reward them with food or praise when they do what you like, and never be harsh with them. They’re sensitive and will stop working for you if you yell at them, try to force them to do something, or hurt their feelings. With patience and consistency, you will find yourself the owner of a well-trained Whippet. After basic obedience you may want to pursue training in dog sports such as flyball, agility, and lure coursing.
Recommended daily amount: 1 to 1.5 cups of high-quality dry food a day, divided into 2 feedings. Note: How much your adult dog eats depends on his size, age, build, metabolism, and activity level. Dogs are individuals, just like people, and they don’t all need the same amount of food. It almost goes without saying that a highly active dog will need more than a couch potato dog. The quality of dog food you buy also makes a difference — the better the dog food, the further it will go toward nourishing your dog and the less of it you’ll need to shake into your dog’s bowl. For more on feeding your Whippet, see our guidelines for buying the right food, feeding your puppy, and feeding your adult dog.
The Whippet’s short, smooth coat lies close to the body. It can be any color or color combination. You’ll see him in black, white, red, fawn, blue, cream, brindle, and various combinations of those colors with a wide variety of spots, blazes, and patches. Keep your Whippet’s coat shiny with weekly brushing, using a rubber curry brush or hound glove. This will help to remove what little hair the breed sheds.
You shouldn’t need to bathe your Whippet frequently unless he rolls in something stinky. Because of his thin coat, a Whippet’s skin is not as protected as that of other breeds. It’s common for Whippets to have nicks, scrapes, and tears that occasionally require stitches. Check him frequently for such injuries and to ensure that there are no infections in any of the nicks and scrapes.
Brush your Whippet’s teeth at least two or three times a week to remove tartar buildup and the bacteria that lurk inside it. Daily brushing is even better if you want to prevent gum disease and bad breath. Trim nails once or twice a month if your dog doesn’t wear them down naturally. If you can hear them clicking on the floor, they’re too long. Short, neatly trimmed nails keep the feet in good condition and prevent your legs from getting scratched when your Whippet enthusiastically jumps up to greet you.
Begin accustoming your Whippet to being brushed and examined when he’s a puppy. Handle his paws frequently — dogs are touchy about their feet — and look inside his mouth and ears. Make grooming a positive experience filled with praise and rewards, and you’ll lay the groundwork for easy veterinary exams and other handling when he’s an adult. As you groom, check for sores, rashes, or signs of infection such as redness, tenderness, or inflammation on the skin, in the ears, nose, mouth, and eyes, and on the feet. Ears should smell good, without too much wax or gunk inside, and eyes should be clear, with no redness or discharge. Your careful weekly exam will help you spot potential health problems early.
Whippets enjoy playing with kids. They’re not so large that they knock them over easily, and they’re not so small or delicate that they’re easily injured by them. That said, a few ground rules will keep everyone safe. Always teach children how to approach and touch dogs, and always supervise any interactions between dogs and young children to prevent any biting or ear or tail pulling on the part of either party. Teach your child never to approach any dog while he’s sleeping or eating or to try to take the dog’s food away. No dog should ever be left unsupervised with a child.
Whippets like the company of other dogs, and the presence of another dog or two can help keep them from being lonely if you’re gone during the day. They have a high prey drive, however, and aren’t really suited to living in homes with cats. It’s their nature to chase small furry creatures, after all. Some Whippets can learn to live peacefully with cats, especially if they’re brought up with them from puppyhood, but you should always supervise them when they’re together and separate them when you’re not home.
Whippets are often bought without any clear understanding of what goes into owning one, and these dogs often end up in the care of rescue groups, in need of adoption or fostering.
Finding a reputable dog breeder is one of the most important decisions you will make when bringing a new dog into your life. Reputable breeders are committed to breeding healthy, well-socialized puppies that will make great companions. They will screen their breeding stock for health problems, socialize their puppies from a young age, and provide you with lifetime support.
On the other hand, backyard breeders are more interested in making a profit than in producing healthy, well-adjusted dogs. They may not screen their breeding stock for health problems, and they may not socialize their puppies properly. As a result, puppies from backyard breeders are more likely to have both health and behavioral issues.
Share article
--------------------------------------------------
