Originally bred to catch rats in mills, Yorkshire Terriers have a hunting instinct and are bold, fearless characters. They make great companions for those living alone and good pets for families with older children, as long as kids are taught how to interact with them correctly. They are energetic and enjoy time spent off the lead and playing games.
Over the years, this breed was gradually miniaturised, first for their work as ratters and later to create a fashionable pet, however they still love to be part of the action.
Over the years, this breed was gradually miniaturised, first for their work as ratters and later to create a fashionable pet, however they still love to be part of the action.
Originally bred as working dogs, Yorkshire Terriers would much rather be busy than sat on a lap for long periods.
Originally bred as working dogs, Yorkshire Terriers would much rather be busy than sat on a lap for long periods.
Find out more about the conditions that we see most in Yorkshire Terriers throughout their lifetime.
Yorkshire Terriers have a long, silky coat that continues to grow, much like human hair. This means that while Yorkies don’t shed as much as other breeds, they do require a high level of grooming. Take a look at our advice page for tips on grooming your dog.
Yorkshire Terriers have a long, silky coat that continues to grow, much like human hair. This means that while Yorkies don’t shed as much as other breeds, they do require a high level of grooming.
Take a look at our advice page for tips on grooming your dog.
With the correct care and nutrition, Yorkies have a long life span. To keep your Yorkshire Terrier in good condition, vets recommend that you feed them a breed-appropriate, high-quality pet food two to three times a day.
With the correct care and nutrition, Yorkies have a long life span.
To keep your Yorkshire Terrier in good condition, vets recommend that you feed them a breed-appropriate, high-quality pet food two to three times a day.
As a low shedding breed, Yorkshire Terriers are generally thought to be suitable for those with allergies. It’s important to remember than no dog is totally hypoallergenic, but there are some breeds that are better for allergy-sufferers than others.
Yorkshire Terriers’ long silky coats require plenty of upkeep to prevent matting and tangling. Gently brush your Yorkie’s fur daily to remove any knots and use this time to clean around their eyes and check their ears. If you do bathe your Yorkie, make sure to use a special dog shampoo to protect their skin and then gently dry them with a towel. Yorkshire Terrier owners should also be prepared for regular visits to a professional groomer; you can even ask to sit in on grooming sessions to find out how to care for your dog’s coat at home.
Whilst Yorkshire Terriers are playful and affectionate, they can also be sensitive and are not best suited to homes with younger children. However, they make great family pets for households with older children and will love to play in the heart of the family. As with all dog breeds, Yorkshire Terriers should always be supervised around children.
Like other Terriers, Yorkies are instinctively intelligent and eager to please, and tend to learn tricks quickly. However, like other toy breeds, they can be stubborn when it comes to housetraining. For this reason, crate training is a great method to use with your Yorkie puppy to set them some boundaries and prevent accidents.
Whether you’re looking to adopt a Yorkshire Terrier or buy a puppy, it’s important to make sure you’re getting your pet from a reputable organisation or breeder. If you’re looking to adopt, you can use Petplan’s rehoming directory to find an organisation. If you want to buy a puppy, make sure you find a reputable breeder.
As a low shedding breed, Yorkshire Terriers are generally thought to be suitable for those with allergies. It’s important to remember than no dog is totally hypoallergenic, but there are some breeds that are better for allergy-sufferers than others.
Yorkshire Terriers’ long silky coats require plenty of upkeep to prevent matting and tangling. Gently brush your Yorkie’s fur daily to remove any knots and use this time to clean around their eyes and check their ears. If you do bathe your Yorkie, make sure to use a special dog shampoo to protect their skin and then gently dry them with a towel. Yorkshire Terrier owners should also be prepared for regular visits to a professional groomer; you can even ask to sit in on grooming sessions to find out how to care for your dog’s coat at home.
Whilst Yorkshire Terriers are playful and affectionate, they can also be sensitive and are not best suited to homes with younger children. However, they make great family pets for households with older children and will love to play in the heart of the family. As with all dog breeds, Yorkshire Terriers should always be supervised around children.
Like other Terriers, Yorkies are instinctively intelligent and eager to please, and tend to learn tricks quickly. However, like other toy breeds, they can be stubborn when it comes to housetraining. For this reason, crate training is a great method to use with your Yorkie puppy to set them some boundaries and prevent accidents.
Whether you’re looking to adopt a Yorkshire Terrier or buy a puppy, it’s important to make sure you’re getting your pet from a reputable organisation or breeder. If you’re looking to adopt, you can use Petplan’s rehoming directory to find an organisation. If you want to buy a puppy, make sure you find a reputable breeder.
Find out more about some of the UK's most popular dog breeds and discover which breed could be your ideal canine companion with our breed selector quiz.
Choosing the right insurance for your Yorkshire Terrier can help keep them happy and healthy whatever happens. Some conditions that we see they are prone to are not always covered by other providers’ policies. For example, they may not cover your pet for dental illness or injury, or for congenital and hereditary conditions. With Petplan’s Covered for Life® dog insurance we have no additional limits for specific conditions or diagnostic tools, and we know how important teeth are to a dog’s health so we include cover for dental illness and injury as standard.
--------------------------------------------------
Nov 01, 2024
The Yorkshire Terrier, commonly known as the Yorkie, is a small and lively breed known for its beautiful, silky coat and charming personality. Originally bred for catching rats in clothing mills, this breed has become a popular companion dog and is cherished for its spirited nature. Here’s a comprehensive overview of Yorkshire Terriers:

Physical Appearance:


Size: Yorkshire Terriers are small dogs, typically weighing between 4 to 7 pounds (1.8 to 3.2 kg) and standing about 7 to 8 inches (18 to 20 cm) tall at the shoulder.

Build: They have a compact and well-proportioned body with a short back and a slightly longer neck.

Coat: Yorkies have a long, luxurious, and straight coat that is often described as silky. The coat is typically blue and tan, with a rich golden tan on the head and legs and a steel-blue body.

Face: They have a small, flat skull with a short muzzle and large, expressive eyes. Their eyes are usually dark and round, contributing to their sweet expression.

Ears: Yorkshire Terriers have small, V-shaped ears that stand erect and are usually covered with fine hair.

Tail: Their tails are often docked to a medium length, although docking is becoming less common in some regions.


Temperament and Personality:


Affectionate and Loyal: Yorkies are known for their strong bond with their owners. They are affectionate and often seek attention and companionship.

Playful and Energetic: Yorkshire Terriers are spirited and playful, enjoying games and interactive playtime. They have a lively personality and often display a sense of curiosity.

Confident and Feisty: Despite their small size, Yorkies have a bold and confident demeanor. They can be quite fearless and may exhibit a strong prey drive.

Good Watchdogs: Yorkies are alert and can be good watchdogs, often barking to alert their owners of any unusual activity.


Exercise and Activity Needs:


Moderate Exercise Requirements: Yorkshire Terriers require regular exercise but do not need extensive physical activity. Short walks, playtime, and indoor activities are usually sufficient to meet their needs.

Mental Stimulation: They enjoy puzzle toys and training games that challenge their intelligence and keep them engaged.

Adaptable to Indoor Living: They are well-suited for apartment living and can adapt to a variety of living situations as long as they receive enough attention and exercise.


Training and Socialization:


Positive Reinforcement: Yorkies respond best to positive reinforcement training methods. Using treats, praise, and play as rewards encourages good behavior.

Early Socialization: Early and ongoing socialization is crucial for Yorkshire Terriers. Exposing them to various people, pets, and environments helps them become well-adjusted adults.

Basic Obedience Training: Teaching basic commands such as sit, stay, and come is important for their safety and good behavior.

Consistency and Patience: Training requires consistency and patience, as Yorkies can sometimes be stubborn or mischievous.


Health and Lifespan:


Lifespan: Yorkshire Terriers typically live between 12 to 15 years, with proper care and a healthy lifestyle.

Common Health Issues:
		

Dental Problems: Due to their small size, Yorkies are prone to dental issues, including tooth decay and gum disease. Regular dental care is essential.

Luxating Patella: This condition occurs when the kneecap dislocates, causing pain and mobility issues.

Tracheal Collapse: Some Yorkies may experience tracheal collapse, a condition that can cause breathing difficulties.

Hypoglycemia: Yorkshire Terriers can be prone to low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), especially when they are young or stressed.



Routine Veterinary Care: Regular veterinary check-ups and vaccinations are essential for monitoring health and catching potential issues early.


Grooming Needs:


High Grooming Requirements: Yorkies require regular grooming due to their long, flowing coat. Daily brushing is recommended to prevent matting and tangling.

Bathing: They should be bathed regularly (about once a month or as needed) to keep their coat clean and healthy.

Nail Trimming and Ear Cleaning: Routine nail trimming and ear cleaning are important for overall health. Regular brushing of teeth can help prevent dental issues.


Living Conditions:


Adaptable: Yorkshire Terriers are adaptable and can thrive in various living conditions, including apartments and small homes.

Indoor Dogs: They are primarily indoor dogs and enjoy being part of family activities. They should not be left outside for extended periods.

Temperature Sensitivity: Yorkies are sensitive to extreme temperatures, so they should be kept indoors during very hot or cold weather.


Yorkshire Terriers as Family Dogs:


Excellent Companions: Yorkshire Terriers are known for their affectionate nature and make excellent companions for individuals and families.

Good with Children: They can be good with children, but interactions should always be supervised due to their small size and fragility.

Compatibility with Other Pets: Yorkies can get along with other pets, especially if socialized from a young age. Early introductions and supervision are important for harmonious interactions.


Working Roles for Yorkshire Terriers:


Companion Dogs: Yorkshire Terriers were bred primarily as companion dogs, and they excel in this role due to their affectionate nature and loyalty.

Therapy Dogs: Their friendly disposition and ability to bond with people make them suitable for therapy work, providing comfort and companionship to individuals in hospitals and nursing homes.


History of the Yorkshire Terrier:


Origins: The Yorkshire Terrier originated in the 19th century in England, primarily bred to catch rats in clothing mills and coal mines.

Development: The breed was developed by crossing several terrier breeds, including the Waterside Terrier, Skye Terrier, and others.

Recognition: Yorkshire Terriers gained popularity in the late 1800s and were recognized by major kennel clubs, including the American Kennel Club (AKC).


Summary:

	Yorkshire Terriers are small, affectionate, and energetic dogs known for their stunning coat and charming personalities. With proper care, training, and socialization, they can thrive as loving family companions and excel in various roles as therapy dogs. Their playful demeanor and loyal nature make them a beloved breed among dog lovers worldwide
The Yorkshire Terrier, commonly known as the Yorkie, is a small and lively breed known for its beautiful, silky coat and charming personality. Originally bred for catching rats in clothing mills, this breed has become a popular companion dog and is cherished for its spirited nature. Here’s a comprehensive overview of Yorkshire Terriers:
Physical Appearance:
Temperament and Personality:
Exercise and Activity Needs:
Training and Socialization:
Health and Lifespan:
Grooming Needs:
Living Conditions:
Yorkshire Terriers as Family Dogs:
Working Roles for Yorkshire Terriers:
History of the Yorkshire Terrier:
Summary:
Yorkshire Terriers are small, affectionate, and energetic dogs known for their stunning coat and charming personalities. With proper care, training, and socialization, they can thrive as loving family companions and excel in various roles as therapy dogs. Their playful demeanor and loyal nature make them a beloved breed among dog lovers worldwide

1. Afghan Hound
2. Beagle dog breeds
3. Border Collie
4. Boxer dog breeds
5. American Cocker Spaniel
6. British Bulldog breeds
7. Chihuahua dog breeds
8. Chow Chow dog breeds
9. Affenpinscher
10. Collie dog breeds
11. Bichon Frise
12.  Kerry Blue Terrier
13. Bloodhound
14. Dachshunds
15. Dalmatians
16. Dobermann
17. German Shepherd
18. Golden Retriever
19. Great Dane
20. Greyhound
21. Jack Russell Terrier
22. Labrador Retriever
23. Maltese
24. Mastiffs
25. Newfoundland
26. Pomeranian
27. Poodles
28. Pugs
29. Rottweilers
30. Saint Bernard
31. Shih Tzu
32. Siberian Husky
33. Yorkshire Terrier
34. Brussels Griffon
35. Cavalier King Charles Spaniel
36. Barbet
37.  American Water Spaniel
38. Brittany Spaniel
39. English Springer Spaniel
40. Flat-Coated Retriever
41. German Shorthaired Pointer
42.  Sussex Spaniel
43.  Irish Red and White Setter
44.  Weimaraner
45. Welsh Springer Spaniel
46.  Black and Tan Coonhound
47. Basset Hound
48. Wirehaired Pointing Griffon
49. Basenji
50. American Foxhound
51. Bluetick Coonhound
52.  Irish Setter
53. Irish Wolfhound
54. Ibizan Hound
55. Harrier Dog Breed
56. Norwegian Elkhound
57. Plott Hound
58.  Irish Water Spaniel
59. Redbone Coonhound
60. Akita
61. Alaskan Malamute Dog Breed
62. Anatolian Shepherd Dog
63. Black Russian Terrier
64. Lagotto Romagnoloa
65. Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever
66.  Pointer
67. Otterhound
68. Petit Basset Griffon Vendéen
69. Pharaoh Hound
70. Rhodesian Ridgeback
71. Saluki
72. Scottish Deerhound
73.  Treeing Walker Coonhound
74.  Whippet
75.  Irish Terrier
76. Bernese Mountain Dog
77. Bullmastiff
78. Cane Corso Dog Breed
79. Chinook dog breeds
80. Doberman Pinscher
81. German Pinscher
82. Kuvasz
83. Norfolk Terrier
84. Norwich Terrier
85. Parson Russell Terrier
86. Standard Schnauzer
87. Bull Terrier
88.  Cairn Terrier
89. Dandie Dinmont Terrier
90. Fox Terrier (Smooth)
91.  Fox Terrier (Wire)
92. Tibetan Mastiff
93. Australian Terrier
94. Bedlington Terrier
95. Border Terrier
96. Manchester Terrier
97. Miniature Bull Terrier
98.  Airedale Terrier
99. Rat Terrier
100. Scottish Terrier
101. Skye Terrier
102.  Belgian Tervuren
103. Canaan Dog
104.  Sealyham Terrier
105. Bouvier des Flandres
106. Bergamasco
107. Briard dog breeds
108. Icelandic Sheepdog
109. Miniature American Shepherd
110. Staffordshire Bull Terrier
111. Norwegian Buhund
112. Old English Sheepdog
113. American Eskimo Dog
114. Chinese Shar-Pei
115. Finnish Spitz
116. Keeshond
117. Welsh Terrier
118. Lhasa Apso
119. Lowchen
120. Cirneco dell’Etna
121. Kai Ken
122. Karelian Bear Dog
123. West Highland White Terrier
124. Australian Shepherd
125. Bearded Collie
126. Belgian Sheepdog
127. Belgian Malinois
128. Cardigan Welsh Corgi
129. Entlebucher Mountain
130. Australian Cattle Dog
131. Finnish Lapphund
132. Pembroke Welsh Corgi
133. Polish Lowland Sheepdog
134. Boston Terrier
135.  Azawakh
136. Puli
137.  Pyrenean Shepherd
138. Shetland Sheepdog
139. Belgian Laekenois
140. Catahoula Leopard Dog
141. Kooikerhondje
142. Norwegian Lundehund
143. Schipperke
144.  Shiba Inu
145. Tibetan Spaniel
146. Xoloitzcuintli
147.  Tibetan Terrier
148.  Dutch Shepherd
149. Japanese Terrier
150. Thai Ridgeback
151.  Pumi
152. Portuguese Podengo
153. Peruvian Inca Orchid
154. Norrbottenspets
155. Mudi
156. Cavapoo
157. Shorkie
158. Pomsky
159. Schnoodle
160. Puggle
161. Maltipoo
162. Labradoodle
163. Cockapoo Dog Breed
164. Lakeland Terrier
165. Chinese Crested
166.  Pekingese
167. Poodle
168. Silky Terrier
169. Toy Fox Terrier
170. Vizsla
171. Borzoi
172. Bluetick Coonhound
173. Chesapeake Bay Retriever
174. Clumber Spaniel
175. Cocker Spaniel
176. Curly-Coated Retriever
177. English Setter
178.  English Toy Spaniel
179. Havanese
180. Italian Greyhound
181. Japanese Chin
182.  Miniature Pinscher
183. Papillon
184.  Field Spaniel
185.  Gordon Setter
186. Spinone Italiano
187. Giant Schnauzer
188.  Great Pyrenees
189. Greater Swiss Mountain
190. Komondor
191. Leonberger
192. Neapolitan Mastiff
193.  Dogue de Bordeaux
194.  Dogo Argentino
195.  Portuguese Water Dog
196. Samoyed
197. American Staffordshire Terrier
--------------------------------------------------
Image Credit: Fernanda Nuso, Unsplash
Last Updated on March 11, 2025 by Dogster Team
Click Below to Skip Ahead
The Yorkshire Terrier is one of the top 10 most popular breeds year after year due to their attractive personality and small size, which makes them well-suited to apartment living. If you have been thinking about getting one of these amazing dogs but would like to know more about them first, keep reading as we look into their temperament, appearance, grooming needs, and common health problems to help you determine if they are right for you.
Height:
7–9 inches
Weight:
3–7 pounds
Lifespan:
11–15 years
Colors:
Blue and tan, black and tan, blue and gold, black and gold
Suitable for:
Large and small homes, single pet owners, and families
Temperament:
Affectionate, lively, social
The Yorkshire Terrier, or Yorkie, is a small dog with a long, silky coat that helps the breed stand out. While the coat requires regular maintenance, they don’t shed excessively, which might help reduce the risk of allergic reactions for some people. They are confident and alert, which can make them effective watchdogs, and they are easy to train due to their high intelligence, so they can be good companions for older adults.

Yorkshire Terrier puppies are undeniably adorable due to their tiny size, which contrasts with the huge amount of curiosity that they have. Helping them grow into adulthood can be an entertaining yet stressful job. They require plenty of socialization to feel comfortable around other people and animals when they are older, and it’s also a good idea to get them used to different environments and places so they don’t bark excessively whenever they leave the house.
Finding a breeder shouldn’t be too difficult, depending on where you live, as they are one of the most popular dogs. However, it’s important to do your research and select a qualified breeder who follows standards and puts the dogs’ health ahead of profits. Avoid breeders who don’t provide registration papers, as they may not have the right to breed the Yorkshire Terrier.
Yorkshire Terriers often develop a deep affection for their owners and will seek out cuddles, especially when you are relaxing indoors. However, they are also extremely playful and are ready to go at a moment’s notice. Their confident nature won’t allow them to back down from any threat, including dogs many times their size, and they are quick to hear strange and unfamiliar sounds, so they can be a good watchdog.
The Yorkshire Terrier is extremely intelligent and can pick up on new commands quickly, making them easy to train, even for first-time pet owners. They respond well to positive reinforcement and are easy to please.
The Yorkshire Terrier can be a good family pet as long as any smaller children understand how delicate they are, since rough handling can easily lead to injury. However, they have a great deal of energy, so a larger family can help them get the exercise that they need. They are friendly and easy to train, which can make them a great addition to any family.
Most Yorkshire Terriers will get along with other pets, especially if they get plenty of socialization with them as a puppy. However, every dog has a unique personality, and some will get along with other animals better than others.

Your Yorkshire Terrier will need a high-quality dog food appropriate for their age that features real meat like chicken or turkey listed as the first ingredient. Avoid table scraps, as these can contain ingredients that might be unhealthy for your dog. Watch portion control to avoid weight gain, and ensure that there is always plenty of fresh, clean water available. Consult your veterinarian if you have any questions about setting up a diet for your pet to get advice tailored to your pet.
The Yorkshire Terrier has a large amount of energy, but it isn’t hard to ensure that they get enough exercise each day. A few short walks daily combined with interactive play can go a long way toward helping them maintain good body weight and burn off excess energy that might keep them up at night and misbehaving. You can also provide mental stimulation through puzzle games and obedience training.
Training a Yorkshire Terrier can be a wonderful experience because they are intelligent dogs that can learn quickly, enabling you to teach them many tricks. For the best results, start early while your pet is still a puppy, and keep your training sessions short, scheduled, and consistent to help create a routine that your pet can get used to. Doing so will allow you to train your dog more successfully into adulthood. Start with basic commands, like sit and stay, before moving on to more complex ones, and use plenty of positive reinforcement to help keep your pup interested and having fun.
Grooming is an essential part of caring for a Yorkshire Terrier due to their long, silky coat. Regular brushing will help prevent matting and tangles, and they may need a bath every 3–4 weeks with a high-quality shampoo to keep the fur looking its best. Regular trimming is also essential to maintain a coat length that suits your pet. Trim the nails when you hear them clicking on the floor, manually brush the teeth as frequently as possible, and check the ears frequently to ensure that they are clean and dry to reduce the risk of infection.
Male Yorkshire Terriers are often more playful than females and can be more affectionate but also more territorial, especially around other animals. Females can be easier to train and tend to be more nurturing.


The Yorkshire is one of the most popular dogs in America, and it’s easy to see why. They are affectionate, form strong bonds with family members, and are intelligent enough to learn a wide variety of tricks. They get along with other pets, especially if they get plenty of socialization as puppies, and have a protective, alert nature that makes them great watchdogs. Their attractive fur is easy to maintain with regular brushing and trimming, and it shouldn’t be too hard to find a breeder, since they are so popular, though you might get put on a waiting list.
See also:
Featured Image Credit: Fernanda Nuso, Unsplash
How useful was this post?
Click on a star to rate (you can leave written feedback after clicking submit)




Help us improve Dogster for pet parents!
Your feedback really matters.
What did you like about this post? Also how can we improve it?

Ed Malaker is a seasoned writer who has contributed to a wide range of blogs covering everything from tools to guitars, and pets to fitness. When Ed isn't writing, he is usually making DIY projects around the house or working in the garden.
I found this article very informative as I am ready to purchase a puppy.
Pangolia
--------------------------------------------------
Your cart is empty
Written by:  Samantha Erb
|
Published on  March 13, 2025
|
Time to read  7 min
Self-assured, silky, and simply stunning, there’s something positively regal about Yorkshire terriers. They're also known as Yorkie, Pookie, The Tomboy Toy. But they’ll answer to just about anything if you’re holding a treat.
Sure, they have the old-timey good looks of a Victorian portrait, but they also have the plucky charms of a pup that knows how to get its way. With long, luscious locks and deep, dark eyes, these dogs are downright gorgeous. They’re also totally tote-able—small enough to fit into a bag and light enough to carry around town.
Of course, it’s not just their looks but their perky personalities that make Yorkshire terriers such beloved companions. Expect a small dog that will talk back, lay down, and snuggle up. Spending time with their owner is their chief concern, so don’t hold back when giving your time and affection to this pint-sized but powerful dog breed.
You'll learn:
The history of the Yorkshire terrier
Yorkie average size
Temperament and personality
Average cost of care

Breed Overview

Table of contents
Yorkies may seem like the ultimate lapdog, but their roots trace back to the working class. 1 In the mid-1800s, Scottish weavers migrated to the northern counties of England with their terriers in tow, arriving in (yep, you guessed it) Yorkshire. Bred to serve as exterminators or ratters, these Scottish terriers helped the weavers manage their new lives in the Yorkshire mills and factories—keeping the pesky rats and rodents in the industrial buildings under control thanks to their small size and dogged determination.
From these tenacious, now-extinct Scottish terriers comes the not-so-ratty long-haired pup we know and love today: the Yorkie. After serving the working people of Yorkshire, the breed found new admirers in the aristocrats and high-society people so commonly associated with the breed. By the late 1800s, Yorkies had settled onto the lap of luxury, garnering attention as the fashionable companion of celebrities, society women, and those looking to make a statement with their canine friends.
The Yorkshire terrier was formally recognized by the American Kennel Club in 1885 and has been a fierce competitor in competitions ever since, continuing to expand the Yorkies reputation as a just-plain-classy dog. Don’t let the awards and accolades fool you. The Yorkshire terrier puppy is more than happy to frolic with us common folk, too. You don’t need to be an heiress to appreciate the sweet nature and clever personality of the Yorkie, you just need about two minutes in a room with one.
Average Height: 7-8 inches
Average Weight: 4-7 lbs
Like other dog breeds of relatively small stature, Yorkshire terriers live a long while. You can spend 11 to 15 years with your Yorkie. They are one of the dog breeds that live the longest.
Is it really hard to handle the Yorkshire terrier temperament? Has their dazzling reputation gone to their head? A little. Yorkshire terriers strut around with a well-earned swagger, their innate confidence making them unafraid to approach strangers or even larger dogs. Because of their courageousness, Yorkies are one of the dog breeds that are the best watch dogs. They may not be very threatening, but they’re more than happy to bark at whoever (or whatever) seems to be approaching their turf.
Of course, these little pipsqueaks are more than tough cookies. They’re also smart, kind, and adventurous, eager to follow you on your next journey, whether it’s across the country or to the grocery store.
Yorkshire terriers are little lap dogs with plenty of energy to keep up with young children. Their small size makes them a bit fragile, so be sure to supervise any playtime with kids and lead by example when it comes to proper dog play behavior.
A Yorkie is roughly the same size as a housecat, so there’s no reason they can’t share a bed, a meal, and a home together. Yorkshire terriers are also known to get along well with other dogs. Make the proper introductions between your pets and you might find your whole home in perfect harmony.
They’re not about to drag you around the block, but you can still expect zoomy, excitable energy from your Yorkie. Yorkshire terriers need about 30 minutes of exercise a day, but they’re usually happy to get their workout running between the rooms of your home or following you around the backyard.
Sometimes a pup just doesn’t want to make things too easy for you. Yorkshire terriers are smart enough to take to training well, but occasionally, they throw you a curveball. Stay persistent and consistent when training your Yorkie, and ensure that your sessions are kept short, simple, and full of positive affirmations to pump up your Yorkshire terrier puppy.
Like any small dog breed, Yorkshire terriers are genetically susceptible to patellar luxation, a condition that may stiffen knee caps and cause mobility issues in the hind legs. 2
Additionally, this little dog can suffer from health problems including: 3
Keep up with yearly routine care checkups and consider asking your adoption agency about preliminary dog health screenings to determine your pup’s chances of developing a genetic condition like heart valve disease or dental disease. The more you know, the easier it will be to protect your pet’s health and support a high quality of life.
Treat your Yorkie to its very own Barkbox! That’s 2 toys, 2 full-size bags of treats, and a tasty chew sent straight to your door.
Although they are one of the dog breeds least likely to make you sneeze, grooming is a big part of the Yorkie lifestyle. We're talking daily brushing, bi-weekly baths, and mostly trims.
If that sounds like a lot to take on—don’t worry. There are plenty of qualified groomers ready to assist with your Yorkshire terrier grooming needs.
While there’s no 100% hypoallergenic breed, Yorkshire terriers have next to no dander and are very low shedders, making them an excellent pick for those of us who get a little sneezy around other breeds.
You’re looking at a yearly bill of  $600 to $1000  to keep your Yorkie happy and healthy.
This breed doesn’t have the biggest appetite in the world. That means monthly food costs may stay below $40, though that may depend on the brand of food you choose.
Most dogs dread the vet, but routine care from the vet can save lives and ensure your Yorkie is living its best life. Expect to spend around $50 on standard checkups and more for bloodwork, x-rays, and treatments for illnesses, if something comes up.
While most Yorkies steer clear of any potentially nasty hazards, they still need protection from heartworms, fleas, and ticks. Due to their small size, you may pay less than $100 for yearly treatments.
All that gorgeous hair care can add up. Monthly groomer appointments may set you back $50 to $100, but you could offset these costs by taking grooming into your own hands.
Pick up a few essential supplies like clippers, brushes, shampoos, and cleaning kits, and for less than $50 you could turn your home into a part-time puppy spa.
Yorkies love a good ball, a chewy snack, or a perfectly sized fetch toy, so give your yorkie puppy what they deserve. You can spend as little or as much as you’d like on toys and accessories for your Yorkshire terrier. Just be sure to enjoy the process of spoiling your furry friend a little bit.
Don’t forget to pick up:
You could also pick up a couple of cute doggy outfits to give your Yorkshire terrier some fresh style for the season. Some Yorkies prefer to go au naturale, but others don’t mind trying a new look every once in a while.
Sources:
American Kennel Club. Yorkshire Terrier.
American College of Veterinary Surgeons. Patellar Luxations. https://www.acvs.org/small-animal/patellar-luxations
Pet MD. Yorkshire Terrier or Yorkie. https://www.petmd.com/dog/breeds/c_dg_yorkshire_terrier
Bring The Wilderness To Your Dog's Backyard With The BARK National Park Foundation Collection At REI
WSAVA Dog Food Nutrient Profiles
Dog Teeth Chattering: What Does It Mean?
Subscribe
Super Chewer Monthly Subscription
$45.00
Latest Posts
Are Golden Retrievers Smart?
Maltese Breed Information Guide: Photos, Traits, & Care
13 Most Difficult Dog Breeds To Train
--------------------------------------------------
Originally bred to catch rats in clothing mills in nineteenth century Yorkshire, Yorkies are a big dog in a diminutive package. Like many of the terrier family, they were owned by the working class and kept as working dogs, not dogs of leisure. However, it was not long before the affluent families of England and Europe realized the versatility of the breed.
Yorkshire Terriers are best known for their long, silky coat. In fact, when first developed in the clothing mills in Yorkshire, the coat was described as the ultimate product produced by the millers. Long, straight, luxurious, and silky, in the show ring, Yorkies are judged on the color, quality, and texture of their coat.
Over the neck and back, Yorkies must have a saddle of rich blue-black while the head, chest, and legs should be a bright, rich tan. Off color puppies cannot be shown and should not be bred as the off-color has been linked with genetic defects within the breed.
Caring for the coat is a labor of love for many Yorkie owners. Unless it is kept well trimmed, it requires daily brushing, weekly bathing and even oiling with light coat oil. Once that is done, the coat is then wrapped in rice paper, tissue paper, or plastic to keep it safe from breakage. These coat ‘packages’ must be checked daily to make sure they do not slip and damage the coat. Many show Yorkies are then kept in stockings or similar foot coverings so that the feathers on the back of their legs do not become damaged.
Yorkshire Terriers are considered a ‘hypoallergenic’ breed.
AKC Show Standard *
General Appearance – That of a long-haired toy terrier whose blue and tan coat is parted on the face and from the base of the skull to the end of the tail and hangs evenly and quite straight down each side of body. The body is neat, compact and well proportioned. The dog’s high head carriage and confident manner should give the appearance of vigor and self-importance.
Body – Well proportioned and very compact. The back is rather short, the back line level, with height at shoulder the same as at the rump.
Tail – Docked to a medium length and carried slightly higher than the level of the back.
Coat – Quality, texture and quantity of coat are of prime importance. Hair is glossy, fine and silky in texture. Coat on the body is moderately long and perfectly straight (not wavy). It may be trimmed to floor length to give ease of movement and a neater appearance, if desired. The fall on the head is long, tied with one bow in center of head or parted in the middle and tied with two bows. Hair on muzzle is very long. Hair should be trimmed short on tips of ears and may be trimmed on feet to give them a neat appearance.
Weight – Must not exceed seven pounds
* Copied in part from the American Kennel Club breed standard
The Yorkie is famous for its ‘small dog syndrome’ personality. Bold and courageous, this toy breed is known for the fearless and often noisy protection of it’s owners and home. They are an intelligent breed that loves their people and require a lot of mental stimulation to remain happy and content.
For 2009, Yorkies sit firmly in the third position of most popular breeds in the United States. Although they have registered in the top ten for over ten years, they have steadily climbed in popularity in recent years. Celebrities such as Paris Hilton have popularized the ‘purse dog’ phenomenon without understanding the consequences behind their actions. A sudden increase in popularity is never a positive step for any breed of dog.
Like many small terriers, they are not good with other dogs or with small children.
The average lifespan of the Yorkshire Terrier is between ten and fifteen years. Extremely small Yorkies under 3 pounds are especially short lived in comparison to other small breeds because of a pre-disposition to diarrhea and vomiting. Normal-sized Yorkies are more prone then other breeds to injuries from falling, playing with other dogs, or being stepped on by clumsy owners.
Yorkshire Terriers are prone to many genetic defects and care should always be taken when choosing a breeder. These conditions include:
Having discovered a fondness for insects while pursuing her degree in Biology, Randi Jones was quite bugged to know that people usually dismissed these little creatures as “creepy-crawlies”.
Imagine the state of your mouth if you never brushed your teeth and never visited the dentist – yuck! Bad breath, plaque, tartar, gingivitis, periodontal disease, and painful broken or loose teeth can all be left undiagnosed and untreated when routine dental care is ignored. And don’t forget that your dog’s mouth is connected to the…
When searching for a dog you often see breeders referring to registries and other dog breed organizations. They may only use the initials of registries or they may mention registries that you’ve never heard of. Here’s a brief overview of some of the more popular registries in the United States. AKC — The American Kennel…
Kennel cough is an extremely common respiratory ailment affecting dogs. The disorder, which can also be called infectious tracheobronchitis, is not a single disease but rather is the way in which dogs react to a number of infectious microorganisms. The bacteria Bordetella bronchiseptica is implicated in many cases of kennel cough, but other bacteria and…
Age: Kilocalories(Per day) Daily Food Quantity(Cups) Fats: Protein: 2 – 3 Months 1050 – 1500 1 – 1.5 8% 22 – 25% 4 – 5 Months 1200 – 1400 1.5 – 2 8% 22 – 25% 6 – 9 Months 1600 – 1800 2 – 3 8% 22 – 25% 10 – 12 Months 1700…
Healthy dogs are happy dogs and what is the best way to keep your dog healthy? Feed them the best food you can afford, maintain their ideal body weight and condition, and know how to recognize common dog health problems before they shift from being a ‘problem’ to being a ‘disaster’. Arthritis Simply put, arthritis…
Have you ever wondered whether do dogs get tired of barking? Every dog owner knows that dogs can bark while they are having fun or when they hear something ominous. However, when the dog barks excessively, you may wonder do dogs get tired of barking.  Generally, dogs use barking as a means of communicating what…
--------------------------------------------------
